Credential stuffing is a type of cyberattack where stolen account credentials typically consisting of lists of usernames and/or email addresses and the corresponding passwords (often from a data breach) are used to gain unauthorized access to user accounts through large-scale automated login requests directed against a web application. Unlike credential cracking, credential stuffing attacks do not attempt to brute force or guess any passwords - the attacker simply automates the logins for thousands to millions of previously discovered credential pairs using standard web automation tools like Selenium, cURL, PhantomJS or tools designed specifically for these types of attacks like Sentry MBA
Credential Stuffing attacks are made possible because many users will reuse the same password across many sites, with one survey reporting that 81% of users have reused a password across two or more sites and 25% of users use the same password across a majority of their accounts.
Credential stuffing refers to attackers taking usernames and passwords stolen or leaked from one site to log into any other site for which an individual reused their credentials.
Credential stuffing is the automated injection of breached username/password pairs in order to fraudulently gain access to user accounts. This is a subset of the brute force attack category: large numbers of spilled credentials are automatically entered into websites until they are potentially matched to an existing account, which the attacker can then hijack for their own purposes.
Credential stuffing is a new form of attack to accomplish account takeover through automated web injection. Credential stuffing is related to the breaching of databases; both accomplish account takeover. Credential stuffing is an emerging threat.
Credential stuffing is a term related to a specific type of hacking that secures user credentials by breaching a system, and then attempts to use those credentials with other systems. Like other kinds of related hacking, credential stuffing attacks rely on hackers being able to get into a network and take out sensitive user information such as passwords and usernames.
What happens with credential stuffing is that hackers take that stolen information related to one site or system, and use it in a brute force hacking attempt to try to get into various other systems. Sometimes hackers evaluate whether one password or username can be used for another website, whether it is related to the original website or not.

As one of the leading password management apps, Dashlane knows all too well the risks of reusing weak passwords on multiple accounts. For years, we’ve told users how hackers and cyber criminals will use stolen or weak passwords from a massive data breach to deface your social media accounts, commit fraud with your credit cards, steal from your online banking account, send malicious messages and emails from your accounts, and even steal your identity.
We’ve even seen big names face highly public consequences for reusing passwords. Take, for instance, Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg whose LinkedIn credentials leaked during the 2012 data breach lead to a hacker group compromising his Pinterest and Twitter pages.
You may not be a big-time CEO, but a report by Shape Security reveals just how easy it would be to exploit your online accounts with a reused password.
The process of exploiting your reused passwords begins when your credentials are stolen. There are various ways hackers can get their hands on your passwords. Here are 5 common ways hackers steal your passwords:
The theft of a database containing your login credentials – This is one of the largest sources of stolen credentials to date. In 2016 alone, a total of 3 billion credentials were stolen.
Phishing and social engineering attacks – This is a method in which a hacker will send a phishing email to steal your account information or trick you into clicking a malicious link and entering your credentials on a false site.
Keyloggers, browser injectors, and other malware – Hackers will often trick you into downloading malware or another malicious software program to capture your login credentials, payment information, and other artifacts including private information.
Password attacks – Password attacks, including brute force and dictionary attacks are automated software programs designed to crack or guess your password.
Wi-Fi monitoring – Never sign into an account while connected to a public or insecure Wi-Fi connection if you are not protected by software such as a VPN. Hackers often use readily-available network monitoring tools to intercept your credentials and other data.
After using any of these techniques, a hacker has the option of either selling your credentials on the dark web or use your credentials for other illegal activities, including identity theft and fraud, extortion, money laundering, and more.
How Credential Stuffing Attacks Are Used to Exploit Your Reused Passwords
Credential stuffing is a technique where hackers use your stolen credentials to access some of your most valuable online accounts, like retail gift card accounts, travel and hospitality loyalty programs, and online banking accounts.
Shape Security defines credential stuffing as “the use of automation to test usernames and passwords stolen from one site on other sites with the intent of taking over a large set of accounts en masse.”
Credential stuffing attacks work by choosing a target site and analyzing the site’s login sequence and processes. Then, a hacker can either create an automated script or use a configurable credential stuffing software to systematically test if the stolen credentials successfully login to the target site. To mask their activity, the hacker will rent botnets—networks of computers controlled by hackers using malware—or a list of proxy IP addresses to make it appear as if login attempts were coming from real users on various computers. Eventually, the hacker will be successful on some sites with some credentials and he is able to take over those accounts and successfully steal assets.
While the process may sound complicated on paper, hackers can easily launch an attack within a few hours.
How successful are credential stuffing attacks?
Remember, in 2016 about 3.3 billion credentials were compromised in data breaches—1.5 billion alone coming from two separate Yahoo breaches.
According to Shape, compromised credentials from these massive data breaches were used to target websites in the retail, finance, travel, and government industries. Their report also noted that the success rate for credential stuffing attacks was between 0.1 percent and 2 percent. That means, if 1 million credentials were stolen from a website like LinkedIn and then used in a credential stuffing attack on Amazon.com, then a hacker would be able to access between 1,000 to 20,000 accounts. This number grows exponentially if those same credentials can be used to access other websites and applications.
What is the best way to protect your accounts from hackers using credential stuffing attacks?
The best way to protect your accounts and data from credential stuffing attacks is to immediately stop reusing the same passwords on multiple accounts. All your accounts—but especially accounts related retail, finance, travel, and government—should be protected with strong, unique passwords. A strong password should have a minimum of 8 characters and includes a mix of uppercase letters, lowercase letters, numbers, and special characters. Here are some additional tips to help you get out of the habit of reusing passwords:
Use a password manager – If you’re having difficulty creating and managing long, complicated passwords, use a password manager like Dashlane! It has a built-in password generator to help you create strong passwords for new accounts, and in-app Security Alerts to notify you immediately when to change your passwords after a data breach. Another great feature is its Security Dashboard, which allows you to view all of the compromised, weak, reused, and old passwords that need to be updated.
Update passwords twice a year – Update your passwords twice a year, even if it’s a strong password. That’ll keep you one step ahead of hackers if a data breach isn’t reported until months, even years later.
Enable two-factor authentication – Enable two-factor authentication (2FA) on all online accounts, especially on highly-targeted websites and apps like your social media and online banking accounts.
Enable login notifications – Enable login notifications via text or email to proactively monitor any suspicious account activity and login attempts.

What is perhaps more surprising though is how many realise what a problem this is, and are either powerless to stop it or allow it despite knowing better. 
In BeyondTrust's Annual Privileged Access Management survey, conducted between May and June 2017, 474 IT professionals told us that nearly half of them, 49 percent, reuse passwords across multiple systems. 
Our respondents weren't ignorant to the threats of such behaviour. Nearly three quarters, 73 percent, called the practice a considerable threat, along with password sharing and using default or weak passwords.  Nor were their fears merely academic. A fifth, 20 percent, said that password reuse caused frequent security issues, as did 22 percent of respondents when talking about password sharing.
It's an exhausting problem for security professionals, not just because everyone does it, nor because they know they shouldn't but because it continues to form one of the larger gaping holes in networks everywhere. Password reuse has been the cause, or ill-gotten gain, of headline grabbing, business destroying breaches for as far back as one might care to remember.
Perhaps the best known example might be Dropbox's 2012 breach, which resulted in the theft of credentials for more than 60 million accounts. Dropbox initially blamed the theft of a password, but in 2016, it was revealed that the culprit password had been stolen from the LinkedIn breach earlier that year. One careless employee had reused the same password for their LinkedIn as they had for their corporate Dropbox account.
Sony fell victim to the same problem in 2011 as did Yahoo in 2012 and JP Morgan in 2014. Looking ahead, many more organisations may well yet befall the same fate. A survey from earlier this year, reported that 87 percent of millennials reuse passwords across multiple accounts and 29 percent have shared passwords with two or more people.
The proliferation of this kind of behaviour has meant that no one breach can be taken on its own, but potentially part of a domino chain that leads to others. This applies to your organisation too - was your CEO's personal info stolen in a mega breach? Then it might follow him or her all the way back to the workplace.
Credential stuffing, in which an adversary uses stolen account credentials from one source and then sees if they work anywhere else through often automated login requests, now gives cyber-criminals great resources to draw on. One study reported that 3.3 billion credentials were stolen in 2016 and attributed as much as 90 percent of login traffic on some web applications to credential stuffing attacks.
As with so many things in enterprise security, educating your colleagues will be your first line of defence. This applies not just to the rank and file of your organisation, but to your senior executives too, who often hold critical information or may be targeted for Whaling attacks.
To be fair to them, an average person has to deal with dozens of private and corporate accounts, and having them remember a unique password for each, is a big ask. Password reuse may be inevitability but your colleagues still need to know why it's a problem, to know what a secure password looks like and be given strategies to deal with the panoply of passwords. For example, passwords can be remembered merely by writing them down in a securely stored password book.
Organisations can also opt in to technical controls like password managers, which largely take the scope for human error out of the picture. As per the August advice of the National Cyber-Crime Centre, such technical controls can not only herd users towards selecting stronger passwords but actually defend against automated password guessing attacks.
Though security oversights like this are not to be ignored, not least for the great damage they can do to an organisation, we may not have to deal with them that much longer. The much vaunted ‘death of the password' gets pushed ever closer into view with the rise of multi-factor solutions, which require more than a mere alphanumeric sequence to authenticate identity. Google and Apple have both adopted multi-factor approaches into their products and services. Until its bell tolls however, we will all have to make sure that our user's passwords are secure, private and unique.

What is credential stuffing?
Credential stuffing is a cybercrime technique where an attacker uses automated scripts to try each credential against a target web site. The reason this works is the majority of users reuse the same credentials on multiple accounts. This unfortunate reality means one data breach can threaten many organizations.
How is an attack executed?
The cybercriminal obtains breached credentials for free or cheaply from publicly available Internet sites and the Dark Web. They then use tools like Sentry MBA to test the credential combinations in a highly automated bulk effort. Successful logins allow them to take advantage of services, stored credit card numbers and other personal information in account takeover attacks.
What is the best defense?
A primary defense against credential stuffing is to ensure the use of unique passwords for each site, making sure they were not previously compromised. PasswordPing allows validation at initial account setup and on a real-time, ongoing basis to ensure user login credentials are not already compromised.

Most users don’t practice good Internet hygiene, instead taking the easy route such as reusing the same login credentials across many accounts. This makes the login page a target for credential stuffing, regardless of whether your organization has experienced a data breach.
Through this fraud technique an attacker can purchase goods or services, take out bank loans, or steal medical information, for example. Credential stuffing can hurt your business, customers, and reputation -- with risk being commensurate with transaction value.
So what is credential stuffing? Credential stuffing is an emerging form of attack that can produce account takeover through automated Web injection by botnets.
Credential stuffing isn’t a brute force attack. It doesn’t attempt to guess passwords. Rather, the attacker uses a botnet to automate the logins for thousands to millions of previously discovered credential pairs using Web automation tools available online. “For attackers, it’s simply a numbers game; a 1% success rate of 1 billion attempts will result in 10 million breaches,” described Frost & Sullivan in a 2017 report, “Advancing to Bot Management and Security: Credential Stuffing Becomes Top Concern.”
Credential_Stuffing-Audin.png
Illustration of credential abuse
Bitpipe
Attack Scenario
Credential stuffing attacks have five phases:
The attacker acquires usernames and passwords from a website breach or through a password dump site.
The attacker tests the stolen credentials with an account checker against many websites (social media, online retailers, and so on).
Successful logins at the sites accessed in step two allow the attacker to gain control of the account matching the stolen credentials.
The attacker then accesses the stolen accounts and downloads their stored values, including credit card numbers, and other identifiable user information.
The attacker uses the account information going forward for transactional, spam, or other purposes.
The Impact
Credential stuffing may appear to impact individuals alone. But that’s not the case.
Company policies usually forbid employees to use their work email or credentials to sign up for services online. They do it anyway -- and credentials found within stolen databases are often directly associated with individuals who use the identical or similar versions of login credentials for work and personal accounts. If work email or credentials get hacked, then a company’s proprietary information, customer lists, and even financial documents are at a high risk of exposure. Attackers can exploit private communications, lists, and networks by leveraging stolen employee login credentials to access a business’s information.
Detection Methods
Watch for these indicators, and take defensive actions:
Look for multiple attempted logons from the same IP addresses.
Monitor higher traffic volumes that originate from foreign or regional locations or detect browser anomalies.
If there is unusual traffic flow through the site and/or APIs, this may indicate the use of automation used to implement the attack.
Another technique to consider employing is regularly checking users’ passwords to ensure they’re not in breach of policy and disallow them if they are.
The National Institute of Standards and Technology released an updated Special Publication 800-63B on Digital Identity Guidelines. The guidance counters the long-held belief that passwords must be long and complex. The new guidelines recommend that passwords should be “easy to remember” but “hard to guess.” The new guidance suggests usability and security go hand in hand.
Prevention Techniques
To head off credential stuffing before it hits your organization, consider deploying technologies such as the following:
Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA) -- MFA combines two or more independent credentials, creating a layered defense to make access more difficult for an unauthorized person or device. When one factor is compromised or broken, the attacker still has at least one more barrier before successfully breaking into the target. True MFA is the best defense against credential stuffing attacks.
Multi-Step Login Process -- Multi-step authentication requires two physical keys, or two passwords, or two forms of biometric identification. For example, after providing the password a user would be required to also provide the one-time password displayed on his or her phone.
IP Blacklists -- Attacker requests probably originate from a few (or one) IP addresses. IP addresses attempting to log into multiple accounts can be blocked or isolated. Monitoring and tracking IP addresses can be used to eliminate (most) false positives. Use the last several IP addresses that the user's account logged in from and compare them to the suspected "bad" IP. Limit the IP address bans to 15 minutes. This can reduce the negative impact to the user and business services.
Device Fingerprinting -- Device fingerprinting is a method for identifying a device (PC, laptop, tablet phone) based on its unique configurations. A simple implementation would be operating system + geolocation + language.
Stop Email Addresses as IDs -- Not using email addresses as user IDs helps prevent spearfishing attacks against such users, because the email associated with the user account is far less obvious.
As security organizations become more sophisticated, so do the attackers -- and in most cases, more so than businesses. Safeguarding your company starts with understanding credential stuffing threats and knowing the best approaches for stopping them.

Data breaches affecting large online service providers persist even as these incidents bring about garish headlines, high fraud costs, and other consequences. You might think that a series of mishaps such as these would be a run of extraordinarily bad luck. 
Fortunately, such an otherworldly conclusion is a far worse one to draw than the less-profound verdict that catastrophic data breaches are interrelated. And, that their root causes are known, addressable, and preventable. 
Breaches show no sign of subsiding. Familiar online service providers serving the UK — Ticketmaster, Dixons Carphone, Timehop, MyFitnessPal, to name a few — unhappily count themselves as recent data breach targets. 
A common theme tying together these incidents is that the affected enterprises stored passwords and other credentials such as bankcards centrally. This is no surprise since Verizon reports that 81 percent of data breaches are credentials-based. 
Even with other authentication factors, features, and experiences on top of access, sensitive data based on shared secrets inevitably saunters out the door or gets ushered out the door. 
The Verizon number points to the need to rethink authentication for account management and payment authorization. It’s not the retrospective on past breaches that’s concerning. Left unanswered, the question of how to protect our progressively digital transactions will result in more similar breaches. 
Credential reuse
Left unaddressed, trouble spawns or invites more trouble. Recurrent data breaches compound an already serious problem for consumers and enterprises. With all of these credentials out in the wild from prior breaches, it increases the likelihood for more of these breaches to happen. The reason why is one that further links data breaches of this kind: credential reuse habits and credential reuse attacks. 
An increasingly connected life causes the average person to juggle dozens of online accounts. It’s rational for us to seek consolidation and ease, and this desire is supported by studies that reveal consumers often use the same password across different applications. 
We’re counseled to create unique, complex passwords, and to manage them impeccably. Then the same designers of the password regime ask us to forget all of this and substitute a cherished phrase or song lyric. Next, we face character limits or minimums, special character inclusion, and we’re asked to alter our favorite phrase every fiscal quarter. Few people outside of security professionals granularly manage large supplies of passwords, and not one of us enjoys it. Thus, credential reuse habits endure.
Then there are attacks exploiting password reuse. With every breach comes hackers’ increased ability to leverage credential reuse attacks since more, and more accurate, recycled credentials are available for credential stuffing, as it is also known. Such an attack is automated and volume-based. Hackers spray libraries of available credentials against enterprises not yet breached, with an alarming 2 percent success rate.  
With 4 billion people worldwide connected to the Internet, apps with multimillion user populations, and passwords as the #1 credential, mass data breaches will continue. This is despite those enjoyable biometric and single sign-on experiences layered atop password login and payment authorization. An enterprise that has a central password repository is only as safe as the Equifax’s LinkedIn’s, and Yahoo!’s of the world. 
Social media account fraud
Breached data from social media accounts is being used in attacks on banks, insurers, and payment networks. The failings of passwords and their central storage means the threat is out of any executive’s control. Social account fraud begets financial fraud and even mission-critical fraud. If there’s a shared challenge, there must be a shared solution or something to emulate. 
How are large firms in the know responding? Some, mainly financial firms with easily quantifiable fraud losses, are inverting the threat model by decentralizing credentials, isolating and encrypting them on mobile devices. PKI in concert with password-less features such as biometrics means there is no longer a need for a password. The consumer or employee registers their credentials — biometrics, PINs, bankcards, even passwords if wanted — onto their device, and they communicate with the service provider via tokenization. The experience for both parties to the transaction is improved since users are quick to abandon passwords. Through attrition, the enterprise’s password central store and attendant risk are removed.
We have our mobile device manufacturers to thank for innovating to where a mobile device has all of the convenience and security features necessary to eliminate the password, providing the application is tied to a properly architected authentication regime. Making matters simpler are open standards such as those created by the Fast IDentity Online (FIDO), whose adoption is gaining traction and which are developed with security and friction-free experiences in mind.   
Future of passwords
Putting mobile devices to their highest and best use by making them digital keys harkens back to the days when a consumer (or similarly, an employee logging into a workstation) held sensitive information on their person. It’s also a means to a future with less preoccupation about credentials-based fraud. The rise of GDPR and PSD2 is creating urgency around a discussion over how to handle authentication and payment data more responsibly. If the government has acted, often it is in recognition of a large-scale, shared challenge. 
An answer to how we’ll preempt the next breaches is also long overdue. Passwords, 40 years old, haven’t kept pace with online growth and fraud. Their management challenges are a usability and security failing that hastens our move to a secure password-less Internet. Catastrophic data breaches are in fact cyclical. As we work hard to sleep better as fraud lurks, we can retire the habits and outmoded systems that keep our doors unlocked.  

Credential stuffing is the practice of using stolen login information from one account to gain access to accounts on a number of sites through automated login. The exploit can allow hackers and those buying stolen credentials to access not just the accounts from the sites they are stolen from but any account where the victim uses the same password.
After obtaining credentials for a number of sites, a hacker may sell a list of user IDs, passwords and email addresses. It is common for these lists to be sold on underground or on the dark web. Whether lists are sold or used by the hacker themselves, it is likely the holder of the account details will want to get as much value from the accounts as possible.
Even though a single account was breached, it can lead to the simultaneous compromise of other sites used by the victim because the credentials are input for multiple sites using automated logins. The attacker often compromises multiple accounts before the user is aware that their account for any site has been breached.
Credential stuffing is a serious threat to both consumers and businesses, which both stand to lose money, either directly or indirectly. In retail in the United Kingdom, it is claimed that over 90 percent of logins come from credential stuffing attacks rather than authentic users. Eliminating these logins could make a significant impact on decreasing credential stuffing.
From an end-user perspective, it's recommended to create different and sufficiently strong passwords for each site. For the site or service provider, tools such as Shape Security's Blackfish or Fortinet's Fortiguard can help fight credential stuffing.

Credential stuffing is an emerging type of automated cyber security threat that is used to verify the validity of stolen account credentials through a large scale automated login process against a web application.
With credential stuffing, lists of authentication credentials stolen from elsewhere are tested against an application’s authentication mechanisms to identify whether users have re-used the same login credentials, according to the Automated Threat Handbook for Web Applications published by the Open Web Application Security Project (OWASP).
The stolen usernames and password pairs could have been sourced directly from another application by the attacker, purchased on the black market or obtained from publicly available breach data dumps, the handbook says. Unlike another automated attack known as credential cracking, credential stuffing doesn’t involve brute-forcing or guessing of values, but tests credentials used in other applications for validity.
As with other automated threats such as account creation, account aggregation and credential cracking, credential stuffing is aimed at organizations in a variety of industries including financial services, government, healthcare and education, according to OWASP, which is a worldwide not-for-profit organization focused on improving the security of software.
OWASP says data commonly misused as part of credential stuffing incidents includes authentication credentials, payment cardholder and other financial data, medical and other personal data, intellectual property and other business data, and public information.
The handbook says possible symptoms of credential stuffing include sequential login attempts with different credentials from the same HTTP client (based on IP, user agent, device, fingerprint, patterns in HTTP headers, etc.); a high number of failed login attempts; and increased customer complaints about account hijacking.
Countermeasures suggested by OWASP include providing guidance to users about how to select stronger and unique passwords and on the importance of protecting relevant password recovery mechanisms; defining test cases for credential stuffing that confirm an application will detect and/or prevent users attempting to use account credentials in bulk; and randomizing the content and URLs of authentication form pages, tying these changes to the individual user’s session and verifying the changes at each authentication step.
Also recommended are identifying and restricting automated usage by reputation methods; ensuring that users have unique passwords by expiring passwords periodically and preventing password re-use; and deploying stronger authentication with solutions such as two-factor authentication.

The financial industry has always been a target for cyberattackers. Credit card data, customer information, and the wealth of corporate data available for the taking has ensured that cybercriminals will try, again and again, to compromise companies in the sector.
In August, cyberattackers made off with $13.5 million in a bank heist by compromising India's Cosmos financial systems.
The MoneyTaker hacking group is suspected of stealing millions from banks in the UK, US, and Russia, while IBM is receiving more requests than ever to improve the security of ATMs following a swathe of ATM jackpotting campaigns.
According to cybersecurity firm Akamai's 2018 State of the Internet report, organizations in the financial sector must also be wary of a new trend -- the increasing popularity of credential stuffing attacks.
Often utilized by botnets, credential stuffing describes the use of stolen or leaked credentials in automatic injection attacks. Automated scripts hammer online services with credentials in the hopes of a password and username or email address being accepted as legitimate -- which, in turn, permits account hijacking and takeovers.
One of the core problems in today's consumer and employee security practices is the use of password and email combinations for multiple online services. When a data breach occurs, such as the LinkedIn 2012 security incident in which 112 million credentials were exposed, the story doesn't end there.
These credentials may end up online and public or for sale in the Dark Web. Massive data dumps full of stolen credentials can be found in the Web's underbelly, all of which can be added to batch scripts which will automatically attempt to login to services.
If victims are not aware their information has been leaked in such a way and have not changed their credentials for every service which uses the same combination, this can result in successful credential stuffing attacks.
In July, the leak of thousands of account credentials belonging to file storage service Mega was believed to be due to credential stuffing, rather than a compromise of Mega's systems.
If a financial account is compromised in such a way, this may lead to the theft of funds or stock portfolio tampering. If the account belongs to an employee of the organization, the damage could be deeper, with the compromise of internal banking systems.
Akamai has witnessed a surge in credential stuffing attacks of late. Between November 2017 and June 2018, over 30 billion malicious login attempts were recorded.
CNET: We can't stop botnet attacks alone, says US government report
While the success rate for such attacks is relatively low, the ease in which they can be performed keeps them popular.
In two particular cases recorded by Akamai, the use of botnets in credential stuffing campaigns were alerted due to heavy-handed botnet operation and massive surges in traffic.
The first scenario involved an unnamed Fortune 500 company. Login attempts jumped from an average of 50,000 an hour to over 350,000 in a single afternoon. Examination of the spike in traffic revealed a botnet which had been ordered to send hundreds of malicious login requests per minute.
Over the course of six days, the firm recorded roughly seven million legitimate login attempts -- as well as over 8.5 million malicious attempts that were generated by the botnet. In total, the botnet comprised of over 20,000 endpoints on 4,923 different ASNs.
See also: Mirai, Gafgyt IoT botnets stab systems with Apache Struts, SonicWall exploits
The second case related to a US credit union which became the target of automated credential stuffing. The union would often record a spike in traffic around lunchtime which could sometimes reach 45,000 login attempts every 60 minutes.
However, a rather noisy botnet launched a brute-force attack which ramped up this rate to 4.2 million attempts over the course of seven days.
The sheer force of the attack alerted the union to the suspicious activity, leading to the discovery of another two botnets which were also operating against the organization.
According to the report, the US, Russia, and Vietnam are the primary sources for credential stuffing attacks.
Research conducted by the Ponemon Institute (.PDF) suggests that up to 70 percent of individuals within organizations believe the tools needed to defend against these attacks diminish the web experience of legitimate users, and while the attack costs businesses up to $6 million per year, only 30 percent of companies have introduced tools and solutions to mitigate the threat of compromise.
"Every business is impacted by credential stuffing botnets," Akamai says. "Many businesses just see the traffic because of scatter shot scans, but financial services and retail sites are prime targets. Account takeover is profitable for attackers, guaranteeing that it will be a threat for the foreseeable future."

People are interesting creatures of habit. We have our favorite things in our daily life such as pen, a coffee cup, or a stapler. When someone steals your pen or coffee cup it can ruin your day, to say nothing if someone makes off with your red stapler. That could really burn.
This sort of habitual behavior becomes a real problem however when we look at how people marshal their access to online applications. When you are creating a password for a retail website or banking application, often times you’ll be asked for a capital letter, special character, and a number, as an example. But the vast majority of people do not use something such as tXZiXjkBA(6LJCjigbh6K/x}r)qGw2 for their password. More often than not it would be something akin to “OttawaMickey1” which, while containing a capital letter, a number, and a special character – that isn’t what the site had in mind when they put those requirements in place.
We try to use passwords that we remember. Birthdays, favorite hockey players “Sundin13” or a child’s name. This becomes worse when people reuse the same passwords on multiple sites. If your password is Sundin13, as an example, and you use this on your Internet banking site and several retail sites – attackers can become a real problem in the event just one of those sites is compromised. Again, as creatures of habit, people will also use the same email when they create accounts online.
OK, so now the attackers have your email and password from a site they have breached. Now, along with potentially thousands of other accounts, they can take those credentials and supply them into an automated tool. This tool can then run those accounts against a target site to see what credentials will work. If they are able to gain access to a retail site or worse, your banking site, they can then steal gift cards, products or transfer money to other accounts they create. Your account is now taken over by the malicious attacker. You are left wondering what happened, and, could this have been prevented?
This is an attack typed called credential stuffing. This sort of automated web application can yield a success rate of 0.1-0.2% successful logins according to OWASP. This sort of attack is not only a problem for consumers, but this has serious ramifications for companies as well that operate online. If their customers are having accounts harvested as the result of a credential stuffing attack, this can cause a loss of confidence in the vendor…potentially leading to lost revenue.
There is no shortage of data available to attackers nowadays when we examine the massive data breaches that have been leaked onto the tubes of the Internet in recent years. This is the fuel that will continue to drive these sorts of attacks. It’s incumbent on enterprises to leverage security measures to protect against the attacks, as well as being diligent in monitoring for these attempts.
As a consumer you need to be sure that you are using different credentials for each account that you have online. You can manage these account credentials with a password manager such as Agilebit’s 1Password, LastPass or Dashlane.
If you are going to be attending Blackhat Europe this week in London, you can learn more about credential stuffing from my co-workers Sonia Burney and Brent Maynard when they deliver their talk, "Becoming You: A Glimpse Into Credential Abuse."
From Blackhat.com:
In this talk, we discuss how to detect and mitigate vulnerabilities using CDNs or existing back end platform architecture. CDN based technology helps to offload security protection during request flow versus relying solely on the origin. With or without CDN specific functionality, platform techniques helps to manage security at the earliest point in the request flow across all nodes within the back end architecture in order to correlate data amongst nodes based on attributes and reputational intelligence to provide actionable data to the system.
As an enterprise there is a need for strong authentication controls, monitoring, and control of what kinds of bots are interacting with your site. This will help to reduce the risk of web fraud and lead to having happier customers and a safer bottom line. For customers, this will help to keep the hackers from making off with their credentials and draining the value of their accounts and ruining everyone’s day.