In computing, a denial-of-service attack (DoS attack) is a cyber-attack in which the perpetrator seeks to make a machine or network resource unavailable to its intended users by temporarily or indefinitely disrupting services of a host connected to the Internet. Denial of service is typically accomplished by flooding the targeted machine or resource with superfluous requests in an attempt to overload systems and prevent some or all legitimate requests from being fulfilled.
In a distributed denial-of-service attack (DDoS attack), the incoming traffic flooding the victim originates from many different sources. This effectively makes it impossible to stop the attack simply by blocking a single source.
A DoS or DDoS attack is analogous to a group of people crowding the entry door of a shop, making it hard for legitimate customers to enter, disrupting trade.
A distributed denial-of-service (DDoS) is a large-scale DoS attack where the perpetrator uses more than one unique IP address, often thousands of them. A distributed denial of service attack typically involves more than around 3–5 nodes on different networks; fewer nodes may qualify as a DoS attack but is not a DDoS attack. Since the incoming traffic flooding the victim originates from different sources, it may impossible to stop the attack simply by using ingress filtering. It also makes it difficult to distinguish legitimate user traffic from attack traffic when spread across multiple points of origin. As an alternative or augmentation of a DDoS, attacks may involve forging of IP sender addresses (IP address spoofing) further complicating identifying and defeating the attack.
An application layer DDoS attack (sometimes referred to as layer 7 DDoS attack) is a form of DDoS attack where attackers target application-layer processes. The attack over-exercises specific functions or features of a website with the intention to disable those functions or features. This application-layer attack is different from an entire network attack, and is often used against financial institutions to distract IT and security personnel from security breaches.
A Denial-of-Service (DoS) attack is an attack meant to shut down a machine or network, making it inaccessible to its intended users. DoS attacks accomplish this by flooding the target with traffic, or sending it information that triggers a crash. In both instances, the DoS attack deprives legitimate users (i.e. employees, members, or account holders) of the service or resource they expected.
SYN flood sends a request to connect to a server, but never completes the handshake. Continues until all open ports are saturated with requests and none are available for legitimate users to connect to.
ICMP flood leverages misconfigured network devices by sending spoofed packets that ping every computer on the targeted network, instead of just one specific machine. The network is then triggered to amplify the traffic. This attack is also known as the smurf attack or ping of death.
Buffer overflow attacks the most common DoS attack. The concept is to send more traffic to a network address than the programmers have built the system to handle. It includes the attacks listed below, in addition to others that are designed to exploit bugs specific to certain applications or networks.

A denial-of-service attack is a security event that occurs when an attacker prevents legitimate users from accessing specific computer systems, devices, services or other IT resources. Denial-of-service (DoS) attacks typically flood servers, systems or networks with traffic in order to overwhelm the victim's resources and make it difficult or impossible for legitimate users to access them.
While an attack that crashes a server can often be dealt with successfully by simply rebooting the system, flooding attacks can be more difficult to recover from. Recovering from a distributed denial-of-service (DDoS) attack, in which attack traffic comes from a large number of sources, can be even more difficult.
DoS and DDoS attacks often use vulnerabilities in the way networking protocols handle network traffic; for example, by transmitting a large number of packets to a vulnerable network service from different Internet Protocol (IP) addresses in order to overwhelm the service and make it unavailable to legitimate users.
Signs of a DoS Attack
The United States Computer Emergency Readiness Team (US-CERT) provides some guidelines to determine when a DoS attack may be underway. US-CERT states that the following may indicate such an attack:
degradation in network performance, especially when attempting to open files stored on the network or when accessing websites;
an inability to reach a particular website;
difficulty accessing a website; and
a higher than usual volume of spam email.
Preventing a DoS attack
Experts recommend a number of strategies to defend against DoS and DDoS attacks, starting with preparing an incident response plan well in advance.
When an enterprise suspects a DoS attack is underway, it should contact its internet service provider (ISP) to determine whether the incident is an actual DoS attack or degradation of performance caused by some other factor. The ISP can help with DoS and DDoS mitigation by rerouting or throttling malicious traffic and using load balancers to reduce the effect of the attack.
Enterprises may also want to explore the possibility of using denial-of-service attack detection products for DoS protection; some intrusion detection systems, intrusion prevention systems and firewalls offer DoS detection functions. Other strategies include contracting with a backup ISP and using cloud-based anti-DoS
Botnet DDoS defenses
Defending against a botnet-driven distributed denial-of-service attack
While there have been instances where attackers have demanded payment from victims to end DoS or DDoS attacks, financial profit is not usually the motive behind this type of attack. In many cases, the attackers wish to cause harm to the organization or individual targeted in the attack. In other cases, the attackers are simply attempting to sabotage the victim by causing the greatest damage or inconvenience to the greatest number of victims. When a perpetrator of a DoS attack is identified, the reasons for the attack may also be revealed.
Many high-profile DoS attacks are actually distributed attacks, meaning the attack traffic is directed from multiple attack systems. While DoS attacks originating from a single source or IP address can be easier to mitigate because defenders can block network traffic from the offending source, attacks directed from multiple attacking systems are far more difficult to detect and defend against. It can be difficult to differentiate legitimate traffic from malicious traffic and filter out malicious packets when packets are being sent from IP addresses seemingly located all over the internet.
Types of DoS attacks
In addition to differentiating between a single-source denial-of-service attack and a DDoS attack, DoS attacks can be categorized by the methods used in the attack.
In an amplified domain name system (DNS) denial-of-service attack, the attacker generates crafted DNS requests that appear to have originated from an IP address in the victim's network and sends them to misconfigured DNS servers managed by third parties. The amplification occurs as the intermediate DNS servers respond to the faked DNS requests. The responses from intermediate DNS servers to the crafted attack requests may contain more data than ordinary DNS responses, which requires more resources to process. This can result in legitimate users being denied access to the service.
Application layer attacks generate fake traffic to internet application servers, especially DNS servers or HTTP servers. While some application-layer denial-of-service attacks rely simply on flooding application servers with network data, others depend on exploiting weaknesses or vulnerabilities in the victim's application server or in the application protocol itself.
A buffer overflow attack is a catchall description most commonly applied to DoS attacks that send more traffic to a network resource than the developers who designed it ever anticipated. One example of such an attack sent files with 256-character file names as attachments to recipients using Netscape or Microsoft email clients; the longer-than-anticipated file names were sufficient to crash those applications.
In a DDoS attack, the attacker may use computers or other network-connected devices that have been infected by malware and made part of a botnet. Distributed denial-of-service attacks, especially those using botnets, use command-and-control (C&C) servers to direct the actions of the botnet members. The C&C servers dictate what kind of attack to launch, what types of data to transmit, and what systems or network resources to target with the attack.
The ping-of-death attack abuses the ping protocol by sending request messages with oversized payloads, causing targeted systems to become overwhelmed, to stop responding to legitimate requests for service and to possibly crash the victim's systems.
A SYN flood attack abuses TCP's handshake protocol by which a client establishes a TCP connection with a server. In a SYN flood attack, the attacker directs a high-volume stream of requests to open TCP connections with the victim server with no intention of actually completing the circuits. The cost of generating the stream of SYN requests is relatively low, but responding to such requests is resource-intensive for the victim. The result is a successful attacker can deny legitimate users access to the targeted server.
State exhaustion attacks -- also known as TCP, or Transmission Control Protocol attacks -- occur when an attacker targets the state tables held in firewalls, routers and other network devices by filling them with attack data. When these devices incorporate stateful inspection of network circuits, attackers may be able to fill the state tables by opening more TCP circuits than the victim system can handle at once, preventing legitimate users from accessing the network resource.
The teardrop attack exploits flaws in a manner similar to how older operating systems handled fragmented Internet Protocol packets. The IP specification allows packet fragmentation when the packets are too large to be handled by intermediary routers, and it requires packet fragments to specify fragment offsets. In teardrop attacks, the fragment offsets are set to overlap each other. Hosts running affected OSes are then unable to reassemble the fragments and the attack can crash the system.
Volumetric DoS attacks aim to interfere with legitimate access to network resources by using all the bandwidth available to reach those resources. In order to do this, attackers must direct a high volume of network traffic at the victim's systems. Volumetric DoS attacks flood a victim's devices with network packets using the User Datagram Protocol or Internet Control Message Protocol. These protocols require relatively little overhead to generate large volumes of traffic, while, at the same time, requiring nontrivial computation on the part of the victim's network devices to process the incoming malicious datagrams.
History of denial-of-service attacks
DoS attacks on internet-connected systems have a long history that arguably started with the Robert Morris worm attack in 1988. In that attack, Morris, a graduate student at MIT, released a self-reproducing piece of malware -- a worm -- that quickly spread through the global internet and triggered buffer overflows and DoS attacks on the affected systems.
Those connected to the internet at the time were mostly research and academic institutions, but it was estimated that as many as 10% of the 60,000 systems in the U.S. were affected. Damages were estimated to be as high as $100 million, according to the U.S. General Accounting Office. Morris was successfully prosecuted under the 1986 Computer Fraud and Abuse Act and sentenced to three years' probation and 400 hours of community service and was fined $10,000.

A denial-of-service (DoS) is any type of attack where the attackers (hackers) attempt to prevent legitimate users from accessing the service. In a DoS attack, the attacker usually sends excessive messages asking the network or server to authenticate requests that have invalid return addresses. The network or server will not be able to find the return address of the attacker when sending the authentication approval, causing the server to wait before closing the connection. When the server closes the connection, the attacker sends more authentication messages with invalid return addresses. Hence, the process of authentication and server wait will begin again, keeping the network or server busy. 
A denial-of-service (DoS) attack is a type of cyber attack in which a malicious actor aims to render a computer or other device unavailable to its intended users by interrupting the device's normal functioning. DoS attacks typically function by overwhelming or flooding a targeted machine with requests until normal traffic is unable to be processed, resulting in denial-of-service to addition users. A DoS attack is characterized by using a single computer to launch the attack.
A distributed denial-of-service (DDoS) attack is a type of DoS attack that comes from many distributed sources, such as a botnet DDoS attack.
How does a DoS attack work?
The primary focus of a DoS attack is to oversaturate the capacity of a targeted machine, resulting in denial-of-service to additional requests. The multiple attack vectors of DoS attacks can be grouped by their similarities.
DoS attacks typically fall in 2 categories:
Buffer overflow attacks
An attack type in which a memory buffer overflow can cause a machine to consume all available hard disk space, memory, or CPU time. This form of exploit often results in sluggish behavior, system crashes, or other deleterious server behaviors, resulting in denial-of-service.
Flood attacks
By saturating a targeted server with an overwhelming amount of packets, a malicious actor is able to oversaturate server capacity, resulting in denial-of-service. In order for most DoS flood attacks to be successful, the malicious actor must have more available bandwidth than the target.
What are some historically significant DoS attacks?
Historically, DoS attacks typically exploited security vulnerabilities present in network, software and hardware design. These attacks have become less prevalent as DDoS attacks have a greater disruptive capability and are relatively easy to create given the available tools. In reality, most DoS attacks can also be turned into DDoS attacks.
A few common historic DoS attacks include:
Smurf attack - a previously exploited DoS attack in which a malicious actor utilizes the broadcast address of vulnerable network by sending spoofed packets, resulting in the flooding of a targeted IP address.
Ping flood - this simple denial-of-service attack is based on overwhelming a target with ICMP (ping) packets. By inundating a target with more pings than it is able to respond to efficiently, denial-of-service can occur. This attack can also be used as a DDoS attack.
Ping of Death - often conflated with a ping flood attack, a ping of death attack involves sending a malformed packet to a targeted machine, resulting in deleterious behavior such as system crashes.
How can you tell if a computer is experiencing a DoS attack?
While it can be difficult to separate an attack from other network connectivity errors or heavy bandwidth consumption, some characteristics may indicate an attack is underway.
Indicators of a DoS attack include:
Atypically slow network performance such as long load times for files or websites
The inability to load a particular website such as your web property
A sudden loss of connectivity across devices on the same network
What is the difference between a DDoS attack and a DOS attack?
The distinguishing difference between DDoS and DoS is the number of connections utilized in the attack. Some DoS attacks, such as “low and slow” attacks like Slowloris, derive their power in the simplicity and minimal requirements needed to them be effective.
DoS vs DDoS attack
DoS utilizes a single connection, while a DDoS attack utilizes many sources of attack traffic, often in the form of a botnet. Generally speaking, many of the attacks are fundamentally similar and can be attempted using one more many sources of malicious traffic. Learn how Cloudflare's DDoS protection stops denial-of-service attacks.

DDoS is short for Distributed Denial of Service. DDoS is a type of DOS attack where multiple compromised systems, which are often infected with a Trojan, are used to target a single system causing a Denial of Service (DoS) attack. Victims of a DDoS attack consist of both the end targeted system and all systems maliciously used and controlled by the hacker in the distributed attack.
How DDoS Attacks Work
In a DDoS attack, the incoming traffic flooding the victim originates from many different sources – potentially hundreds of thousands or more. This effectively makes it impossible to stop the attack simply by blocking a single IP address; plus, it is very difficult to distinguish legitimate user traffic from attack traffic when spread across so many points of origin.
The Difference Between DoS and DDos Attacks
A Denial of Service (DoS) attack is different from a DDoS attack. The DoS attack typically uses one computer and one Internet connection to flood a targeted system or resource. The DDoS attack uses multiple computers and Internet connections to flood the targeted resource. DDoS attacks are often global attacks, distributed via botnets.
Types of DDoS Attacks
There are many types of DDoS attacks. Common attacks include the following:
Traffic attacks: Traffic flooding attacks send a huge volume of TCP, UDP and ICPM packets to the target. Legitimate requests get lost and these attacks may be accompanied by malware exploitation.
Bandwidth attacks: This DDos attack overloads the target with massive amounts of junk data. This results in a loss of network bandwidth and equipment resources and can lead to a complete denial of service.
Application attacks: Application-layer data messages can deplete resources in the application layer, leaving the target's system services unavailable.

A denial-of-service (DoS) attack occurs when a system or machine maliciously gets flooded with traffic or information that makes it crash or be otherwise inaccessible to users. The most common method is a buffer overflow attack, which sends more traffic to a network address than it can handle.
Hackers also try other tactics, such as using fake data packets that send content to every machine on a network instead of only one, or by carrying out a SYN flood. The latter sends a server connection request, but doesn’t complete the handshake. This kind of attack targets every open port so there are none left for legitimate customers to use. Another technique exploits existing vulnerabilities in the system, rather than increasing traffic, to cause it to crash.
Distributed denial-of-service (DDoS) attacks are increasingly common in today’s cyber-landscape. They’re similar to other types of DoS attacks in the effects they have, but the primary difference is the traffic shutting down a victim’s servers or systems originates from many sources rather than one. Distributing the attack across multiple sources increases the damage that can be done and makes it more difficult to shut down; it is also harder to identify the malicious party behind the attack.
DDoS attacks work when those various sources act in sync with one another, often through a botnet. A botnet is a combined network of hijacked internet-connected systems or devices that are remotely controlled as group. Hackers often use them to send spam or phishing emails or expose banking details. However, they’re an instrumental part of DDoS attacks, too. Some hackers even offer botnets for hire, allowing even unskilled cybercriminals to do damage.
One worrisome reality is that the Internet of Things (IoT) brought countless internet-connected devices to the marketplace, making DDoS attacks easier to achieve than in the past. These devices, such as cameras and routers, are prime candidates for botnets because they often rely on poor authentication practices, including shipping with weak default passwords. Hackers can use basic dictionary-based attacks to guess the admin credentials and take over the device.
One memorable example of this is the Mirai botnet, believed to be made up of over 600,000 zombie IoT devices. Mirai was notoriously used a few years ago for DDoS attacks targeting several key service providers, which caused many popular websites, such as Amazon and Twitter, to be unavailable to users.
Victims could easily argue there’s no good time to get hit with any attack from cyber-criminals. Remember the WannaCry ransomware attack that took down servers storing health information in the United Kingdom and forced the targets to pay exorbitant fees in cryptocurrencies?
One problem with DoS and DDoS attacks is that the people behind them often figure out how to cause the most damage to their targets through impeccable timing. A few years ago, Xbox and PlayStation were targeted and disabled on Christmas Day, putting a damper on the holiday spirit of everyone who had just received the game systems for gifts. Other instances further prove hackers had timing in mind when planning attacks.
In January 2016, a DDoS affected customers of HSBC Bank in the United Kingdom, and they couldn’t access their online accounts.
That’s bad enough, but it’s even worse, considering it all happened only a couple of days before the United Kingdom’s tax deadline. Research also indicates the financial sector is the most likely industry hit by DDoS attacks, with 57 percent of incidents targeting it.
Earlier, in July 2015, New York Magazine found itself shut down just after publishing 35 interviews alleging Bill Cosby of sexual assault. The likely reason was a DDoS attack. The information possessed by the news outlet contained exclusive details that people want to read, but the timeliness of the attack meant they were not able to immediately.
Multiple DDoS incidents occurring in August 2018 also demonstrated how hackers sometimes bring down various websites associated with one industry, even if they’re in different countries. Poker websites in the United States and Canada discovered users unable to access services through attacks that didn’t coincide, but were close to each other.
The US-based America’s Card Room experienced a lapse in service due to a DDoS attack on Aug. 5, right before the start of a substantial online tournament series offering guaranteed wins of $10 million, and had to cancel several of the tournaments as a result. The site’s managing director confirmed the attacks lasted for several hours and that America’s Card Room was working with a DDoS mitigation service to prevent future issues.
A week later, PokerStars, a Canadian site, experienced similar woes when its users started complaining about connectivity problems. Again, these issues kicked off on a day of important tournaments. It’s important to note that these attacks don’t just affect users in the company’s base country either. Despite being based in Canada, PokerStars serves customers in Europe and India. People in those places also could not use the website once the problems cropped up.
Any amount of downtime could make customers begin assuming service providers don’t have adequate infrastructure. A problem that’s severe enough could cause them to complain on social media channels or decide to take their patronage elsewhere.
DoS protection services are available to monitor traffic levels and give alerts of strange activity. More recently, some researchers made prototypes of such systems that use machine learning to detect potential attacks. Conclusions show that although those take time to build, their performance is superior to previously available kinds of DoS screening tools.
Besides depending on methods of finding out about DoS attacks before they affect the majority of users, it’s crucial for businesses to create crisis response plans incorporating DoS and DDoS attacks.
Knowing what to do once one happens doesn’t prevent it entirely, but responding promptly could minimize the extent of the damage. Plus, being upfront about what happened could calm the strong emotions that inevitably flare up when people discover the websites and services they often use and rely upon are suddenly rendered useless.
DoS attacks do more than damage reputations and cause frustration. They cost up to $40,000 per hour for victims and less than $40 per hour to orchestrate. A look at news headlines over the past couple of years shows these types of attacks are on the rise and progressively more extensive.
Business owners and others who could potentially find their services brought down by these kinds of attacks must realize they can’t ignore them.
It’s essential to understand the threat of these attacks, learn how to prevent or at least identify them before they can wreak too much havoc, and have disaster recovery processes in place to get systems running again in the unfortunate event you are targeted.

What Denial Of Service Attack (DoS)
A Denial Of Service Attack (DoS) is an intentional cyberattack carried out on networks, websites and online resources to restrict access to its legitimate users. Denial of Service (DoS) attacks is highly notable events that may last from a few hours to many months. A type of DoS attack that is prevalent on the web is called the Distributed Denial of Service (DDoS) attack.
BREAKING DOWN Denial Of Service Attack (DoS)
DoS attacks are on the rise because as businesses and consumers use more digital platforms in communicating and transacting with each other; these cyberattacks target digital intellectual property and infrastructures. Cyberattacks are typically launched to steal personally identifiable information (PII), causing considerable damages to the businesses’ financial pockets and reputation. Data breaches can target a specific company or a host of companies at the same time. A company with high-security protocols in place may be attacked through a member of its supply chain with inadequate security measures. When multiple companies have been selected for an attack, the perpetrators can use a Denial of Service Attack (DoS) approach.
In a DoS attack, the cyberattackers typically use one internet connection and one device to send rapid and continuous requests to a target server to overload the server’s bandwidth. DoS attackers exploit a software vulnerability in the system and proceed to exhaust the RAM or CPU of the server. The damage in loss of service done by a DoS attack can be fixed in a short time by implementing a firewall with allowing and deny rules. Since a DoS attack only has one IP address, the IP address can be easily fished out and denied further access using a firewall. However, there is a type of DoS attack that is not so easy to detect – Distributed Denial of Service (DDoS) attack.
Distributed Denial of Service Attack
A Distributed Denial of Service (DDoS) attack uses multiple infected devices and connections spread around the world as a botnet. A botnet is a network of personal devices which have been compromised by cybercriminals without the knowledge of the owners of the devices. The hackers infect the computers with malicious software to gain control of the system to send spam and fake requests to other devices and servers. A target server that falls victim to a DDoS attack will experience an overload due to the hundreds or thousands of phony traffic that comes in. Because the server is attacked from multiple sources, detecting all the addresses from these sources may prove difficult. Also separating legitimate traffic from the fake traffic may also be impossible to do, hence, another reason why it is hard for a server to withstand a DDoS attack.
Unlike most cyberattacks that are initiated to steal sensitive information, initial DDoS attacks are launched to make websites inaccessible to their users. However, some DDoS attacks are used as a facade for other malicious acts. When servers have been successfully knocked down, the culprits may go behind the scenes to dismantle the websites’ firewalls or weaken their security codes for future attack plans.
A DDoS attack can also be used as a digital supply chain attack. If the cyberattackers cannot penetrate the security systems of their multiple target websites, they can find a weak link that is connected to all the targets and attack the link instead. When the link is compromised, the primary targets would automatically be indirectly affected as well.
Distributed Denial of Service Attack Example
In October 2016, a DDoS attack was carried out on a domain name service (DNS) provider, Dyn. Think of a DNS as the internet’s directory that routes your request or traffic to the intended webpage. A company like Dyn hosts and manages the domain name of select companies in this directory on its server. When Dyn’s server is compromised, this also affects the websites of the companies that it hosts. The 2016 attack on Dyn, flooded its servers with an overwhelming amount of internet traffic, thereby creating a massive web outage and shutting down over 80 websites including major sites like Twitter, Amazon, Spotify, Airbnb, PayPal, and Netflix.
Some of the traffic was detected from a botnet created with malicious software known as Mirai that seemed to have affected over 500, 000 devices connected to the internet. Unlike other botnets that capture private computers, this particular botnet gained control over the easily accessible Internet of Things (IoT) devices such as DVRs, printers, and cameras. These weakly secured devices were then used to make a DDoS attack by sending an insurmountable number of requests to Dyn’s server.
Cyber vandals keep coming up with new ways to commit cybercrime either for fun or profit. It is imperative that every device that has access to the internet have security protocols in place to restrict access.

A denial of service attack is an effort to make one or more computer systems unavailable. It is typically targeted at web servers, but it can also be used on mail servers, name servers, and any other type of computer system.
Denial of service (DoS) attacks may be initiated from a single machine, but they typically use many computers to carry out an attack. Since most servers have firewalls and other security software installed, it is easy to lock out individual systems. Therefore, distributed denial of service (DDoS) attacks are often used to coordinate multiple systems in a simultaneous attack.
A distributed denial of service attack tells all coordinated systems to send a stream of requests to a specific server at the same time. These requests may be a simple ping or a more complex series of packets. If the server cannot respond to the large number of simultaneous requests, incoming requests will eventually become queued. This backlog of requests may result in a slow response time or a no response at all. When the server is unable to respond to legitimate requests, the denial of service attack has succeeded.
DoS attacks are a common method hackers use to attack websites. Since flooding a server with requests does not require any authentication, even a highly secured server is vulnerable. However, a single system is typically not capable of carrying out a successful DoS attack. Therefore, a hacker may create a botnet to control multiple computers at once. A botnet can be used to carry out a DDoS attack, which is far more effective than an attack from a single computer.
Denial of service attacks can be problematic, especially when they cause large websites to be unavailable during high-traffic times. Fortunately, security software has been developed to detect DoS attacks and limit their effectiveness. While many well-known websites, like Google, Twitter, and WordPress, have all been targets of denial of service attacks in the past, they have been able to update their security systems and prevent further service interruptions. 