It is no exaggeration to say that were it not for deep web marketplaces, and specifically Silk Road, there’s a chance that bitcoin might never have taken off. At the very least, its adoption would have been hindered. VCs courting crypto funds; entrepreneurs seeking to tokenize the world; startups putting improbable things on the blockchain; ICOs amassing ether: none of these things would exist had a twenty-something dropout named Ross Ulbricht not decided to sell psychedelic mushrooms and accept payment in bitcoin.
Silk Road is long gone, but the legacy Ross Ulbricht laid lives on through its successors. Deep Dot Web’s comparison chart contains a breakdown of no less than 10 DNMs, detailing the commission they take and listing features such as multisig, 2FA, and forced PGP. The deep web’s most popular markets have made it to the top on account of their longevity, range of wares, and generally positive reviews. For those inclined to enter the deep web, the following marketplaces may be of interest.
The deep web’s oldest marketplace, Dream has been standing since 2013, which is aeons in darknet terms. Exit scams and LE busts usually put paid to DNMs in less than 12 months. The fact that Dream is still standing attests to its robustness. It accepts bitcoin core, bitcoin cash, and monero and boasts 50,000 digital goods and 63,000 drugs listings. Its “Other” category contains designer watches, retro Air Jordan sneakers, €500 notes, credit card numbers, and hentai porn subscriptions. There’s also a “Services” section where you can purchase fake IDs or order Youtube dislikes on a video you particularly hate. For 0.8 BTC you can disappear completely before emerging with an entirely new identity.
Point, formerly Tochka, is a Russian DNM that’s been running since 2015. It has a number of innovative features including dead drops, enabling vendors to leave goods at a location where the buyer can later collect it. The site has less uptime than Wall Street and Dream (90% versus 97% and 98% respectively), and has been offline for the past couple of days. Otherwise, Point’s customer service is highly rated, and the site stocks all the usual goodies you’d expect to find on the deep web.
Riddled with vice and double-dealing, Wall Street is a den of iniquity. Its deep web namesake, on the other hand, is highly regarded. The site claims to have almost 3,000 vendors and 400,000 customers and accepts BTC and XMR. Wall Street has less wares then Dream but more categories including “Security & Hosting” which can be found alongside “Fraud”. Not everything that can be bought on the deep web is illicit – just most things.
Anyone considering checking out Point, Wall Street, Dream, or any of the many other darknet marketplaces – plus P2P marketplace Open Bazaar – should take precautions to preserve their anonymity. Buyers should also note that certain items may be illegal to purchase in their country. Other risks include the possibility of law enforcement surreptitiously taking over a site and using it as a honeypot to collect user information, as happened with Hansa.
Dream Market is one of the oldest and most trusted darknet markets around, the last Dream market review I did was nearly a year ago, since then they’ve implemented a lot of new security features, more products, better servers and what not, so let’s get you acquainted.
Darknet markets is a solution for all type legal or illegal products because these marketplaces offer security to both parties means seller or buyer, here you can use escrow service at a type to deals with any listed products, Escrow services makes your payment mode more secure and clear without any fraud. These deep web marketplaces have a big number of listed categories, and each category has more than thousands of unique products. Means is more listed products then have more alternatives.
If you are a seller (Vendor) then these dark web marketplace links will proving a milestone for you. Where you can sell your products. And you can easily get targeted customer or can achieve your goals within the very short time span.
Luna Market is a marketplace which like most other Darknet Markets is most heavily stocked in its “Drugs” category and offers as many as 528 individual listings, other popular products available include Digital Goods with 145 products, 48 services, even 2 jewelleries to name just a few, all of which add upto over a thousand individual products.
Newly launched darknet market that looks like biggest marketplace (Alphabay). This marketplace has listing related to fraud, drugs, guide & tutorials, Counterfeit, Digital Products, Jewels & Gold, weapons, carded Items, Software & Malware and much more. Within last one month marketplace growing very fast.

On July 4, 2017, the Amazon of the dark web went dark. Alphabay, the largest underground market ever seen, and a popular shop for drugs, stolen credit cards, counterfeit documents, and cyber-crime kits, was largely considered the bellwether market for the underground economy; Alphabay was steady and reliable — efficiently run and highly organized, with incredible uptime in a world where sites go down multiple times each day.
Everything was running smoothly, business as usual. And then it disappeared.
At first users ambled over to the then-popular dark web watering holes of the Reddit communities, complaining about downtime and checking that other users were also facing access issues. As the hours piled up, users became more restless, trading complaints about incomplete orders-in-progress. As the downtime stretched into days, users became riotous, demanding answers from the site’s moderators.
Whispers spread about a possible exit scam — a suggestion that market administrators had shut down the site intentionally to run off with all of the money held in escrow. Dark web markets are sophisticated ecommerce platforms — markets hold buyer funds in escrow while transactions are finalized.
Alphabay admins could have easy run off with a hefty sum in Bitcoin from unfinalized orders and left their users high and dry, as many markets had done before.
One week later, and Alphabay showed no signs of life. Vendors began promoting pop-ups on secondary markets, slowly driving users to an alternative platform — Hansa. Hansa was newer than Alphabay but had earned itself a respectable reputation for having a good user interface, relatively reliable service, and few scams.
This influx of users — so-called Alphabay refugees — built rapidly into a strain on the Hansa systems. In a scramble to locate vendors and familiar faces, Hansa took on the effect of a crowded airport after the planes have been grounded — vaguely organized chaos, idle shouting, and a fair amount of frustration.
And then, on July 20th, the US Attorney General broke the news: Alphabay had been taken down in a coordinated effort between the Department of Justice, Europol, and other international law enforcement agencies. Alphabay hadn’t exit scammed, it had been seized.
Before users could react, law enforcement dropped a second bombshell: Hansa, the market Alphabay refugees had been flooding to, had been under the control of Dutch police for more than a month.
The community exploded. Vendors ceased orders, buyers deleted accounts, and the Reddit communities swapped paranoid convictions about police preparing to raid their houses.
One user wrote this, immediately following the takedown:
I’ve said this for weeks…stay away from the DNM’s and erase all you can. […] Just be happy you had a good time with the DNM’s and get the FK outta here. P.s. Delete your reddit account too. I will. Cheers fellas.
Chaos, disappearances, and a rushing undercurrent of uncertainty.
The aftermath
Then, slowly but surely, normalcy returned.
Users moved on to other markets (with a healthy dose of hesitation and skepticism), new markets launched and failed, and the community found its footing. Autumn brought new instability to the dark web markets, as a relentless wave of denial of service attacks rendered the remaining markets inaccessible for more than a month.
All this took place while users restlessly traded conspiracy theories and questioned whether any additional markets had been compromised by law enforcement. In the background, Bitcoin ricocheted between incredible spikes and huge dips — hitting $20,000 in December before crashing to $6,900 just weeks later.
No market has yet taken Alphabay’s or Hansa’s places. The marketplaces have become largely decentralized, without a clear leader. The veteran of the group, a site called Dream, is rife with conflict and complaints, regular reports of scamming, and still regarded with a sense of mistrust; as much as users are unwilling to believe that law enforcement would operate a market for more than a year, there’s still a lingering suspicion in the minds of many that Dream has been compromised for a long time, and that another takedown could come at any time.
The markets, somehow, despite it all, are doing just fine.
Why didn’t the takedowns work?
They did, kinda.
The takedowns were incredibly disruptive for certain dark web communities. They prompted an unparalleled scramble among vendors, buyers, and site operators — more opportunities for mistakes and slip-ups under law enforcement’s watchful eye.
The takedowns collapsed the infrastructure of the largest dark web market thus far, and led to the capture of the site’s founder, Alexandre Cazes. Cazes was identified because of a mistake he’d made in the initial weeks after Alphabay’s launch.
As with so many other cyber-crime cases, the devil was in the details: Cazes used a personal email account in his welcome messages for the first weeks after Alphabay’s launch. Cazes, a Canadian national, was arrested at his home in Thailand, only to be found dead in his cell a few days later under suspicious circumstances.
The takedowns were effective in disrupting the largest underground bazaars. They are a tribute to the efforts of cooperation and parallel investigations from international law enforcement. They sent a clear message to the dark web criminal community: we’re here, we’re on to you. You’re next.
Why, then, are the markets still up and running?
If the takedowns were effective, why are criminal communities still thriving online? If this move caused so much initial chaos, why wasn’t it more disruptive long term? Why did everything go back to normal?
Well, there are few answers to those questions.
The dark web criminal community is not a single entity. Taking down Alphabay is the equivalent of arresting a mob boss (or maybe a consigliere) in a major city: disruptive, effective, but ultimately a single strike. When one operation is taken down, parallel criminal networks abound, undisturbed, and now with a chance to seize a larger segment of the market.
The takedown only affected certain sectors of the criminal underground. Within the illicit community as a whole, the major factions — drugs, fraud, counterfeits, weapons — often operate independently. The factions that used these major platforms as a home base, like the drug vendors, were at a greater loss when the site went down.
The distinction between traditional crime and cyber crime is increasingly blurry. The dark web is a distribution platform and an operating hub — a place to develop tradecraft, recruit team members, and hire consultants. These communities undergird the existing operations and provide a centralized system, but they are not the system itself. Cyber crime provides an effective, scalable extension of existing criminal business models.
What happens next?
These communities are resilient and will persist because they can adapt to technology. These takedowns, while unprecedented, are milestones that build the history of the dark web. We must understand them in context, and not sensationalize as the end of all things — the dark web always finds a way.

T•chka (Rebranded as Point Marketplace_ allows you to buy and sell your stuff instantly. And you don’t have to communicate with other party at all. Buy or sell coordinates of your buried treasures. Finalize the trade only if you are satisfied with your purchase, or get your money back otherwise. Rate & review your purchases and sellers.
Tochka is now a referral market – a referral is included in the market url above.

A darknet market or cryptomarket is a commercial website on the web that operates via darknets such as Tor or I2P.[1][2] They function primarily as black markets, selling or brokering transactions involving drugs, cyber-arms,[3] weapons, counterfeit currency, stolen credit card details,[4] forged documents, unlicensed pharmaceuticals,[5] steroids,[6] and other illicit goods as well as the sale of legal products.[7] In December 2014, a study by Gareth Owen from the University of Portsmouth suggested the second most popular sites on Tor were darknet markets.
Following on from the model developed by Silk Road, contemporary markets are characterised by their use of darknet anonymised access (typically Tor), bitcoin payment with escrow services, and eBay-like vendor feedback systems.
The first pioneering marketplace to use both Tor and Bitcoin escrow was Silk Road, founded by Ross Ulbricht under pseudonym "Dread Pirate Roberts" in February 2011.[20][21] In June 2011, Gawker published an article about the site,[22][23] which led to "Internet buzz"[24] and an increase in website traffic.[20] This in turn led to political pressure from Senator Chuck Schumer on the US DEA and Department of Justice to shut it down,[25] which they finally did in October 2013 after a lengthy investigation.[26] Silk Road's use of all of Tor, Bitcoin escrow and feedback systems would set the standard for new darknet markets for the coming years.[27] The shutdown was described by news site DeepDotWeb as "the best advertising the dark net markets could have hoped for" following the proliferation of competing sites this caused,[28] and The Guardian predicted others would take over the market that Silk Road previously dominated.[29][30]
The months and years after Silk Road's closure would be marked by a greatly increased number of shorter-lived markets as well as semi-regular law enforcement take downs, hacks, scams and voluntary closures.
Atlantis, the first site to accept Litecoin as well as Bitcoin, closed in September 2013, just prior to the Silk Road raid, leaving users just 1 week to withdraw any coins.[31][32] In October 2013, Project Black Flag closed and stole their users' bitcoins in the panic shortly after Silk Road's shut down.[32][33] Black Market Reloaded's popularity increased dramatically after the closure of Silk Road and Sheep Marketplace;[34] however, in late November 2013, the owner of Black Market Reloaded announced that the website would be taken offline due to the unmanageable influx of new customers this caused.[35] Sheep Marketplace, which launched in March 2013, was one of the lesser known sites to gain popularity with Silk Road's closure.[36] Not long after those events, in December 2013, it ceased operation after two Florida men stole $6 million worth of users' Bitcoins.
From late 2013 through to 2014, new markets started launching with regularity, such as the Silk Road 2.0, run by the former Silk Road site administrators as well as the Agora marketplace.[41][42] Such launches were not always a success; in February 2014 Utopia,[43] the highly anticipated market based on Black Market Reloaded,[44] opened only to shut down 8 days later following rapid actions by Dutch law enforcement.[45] February 2014 also marked the short lifespans of Black Goblin Market and CannabisRoad, two sites which closed after being demonized without much effort.[46]
November 2014 briefly shook the darknet market ecosystem, when Operation Onymous, executed by the United States' FBI and UK's National Crime Agency, led to the seizure of 27 hidden sites, including Silk Road 2.0, one of the largest markets at the time,[47] as well 12 smaller markets and individual vendor sites.[48] By September 2014, Agora was reported to be the largest market, avoiding Operation Onymous, and as of April 2015 has gone on to be the largest overall marketplace[49] with more listings than the Silk Road at its height.[41]
2015 would feature market diversification and further developments around escrow and decentralisation.
In March 2015 the Evolution marketplace performed an "exit scam", stealing escrowed bitcoins worth $12 million, half of the ecosystem's listing market share at that time.[50] The closure of Evolution led to a users redistributing to Black Bank and Agora. However Black Bank, which as of April 2015 captured 5% of the darknet market's listings, announced on May 18, 2015 its closure for "maintenance"[51] before disappearing in a similar scam.[52] Following these events commentators suggested that further market decentralization could be required, such as the service OpenBazaar, in order to protect buyers and vendors from this risk in the future as well as more widespread support from "multi-sig" cryptocurrency payments.[53][54]
In April, TheRealDeal, the first open cyber-arms market for software exploits as well as drugs, launched to the interest of computer security experts.[55] In May varied DDOS attacks were performed against different markets including TheRealDeal. The market owners set up a phishing website to get the attacker's password, and subsequently revealed collaboration between the attacker and the administrator of Mr Nice Guy's market who was also planning to scam his users.[56] This information was revealed to news site DeepDotWeb.[57][58]
On July 31, the Italian police in conjunction with Europol shut down the Italian language Babylon darknet market seizing 11,254 Bitcoin wallet addresses and 1 million euros.[59][60]
At the end of August, the leading marketplace Agora announced its imminent temporary closure after reporting suspicious activity on their server, suspecting some kind of deanonymisation bug in Tor.[61]
By October 2015, AlphaBay was recognized as the largest market.[62] From then on, through to 2016 there was a period of extended stability for the markets, until in April when the large Nucleus marketplace collapsed for unknown reasons, taking escrowed coins with it.[63]
On the 28th of April, investigations into the Italian Darknet Community (IDC) forum-based marketplace led to a number of key arrests.[64]
In May 2017, the Bloomsfield market closed after investigations in Slovakia inadvertently led to the arrests of its operators.[65] Later that month, the long-lived Outlaw market closed down citing a major bitcoin cryptocurrency wallet theft; however, speculation remained that it was an exit scam.[66]
In July 2017 the markets experienced their largest disruptions since Operations Onymous, when Operation Bayonet culminated in coordinated multinational seizures of both the Hansa and leading AlphaBay markets, sparking worldwide law enforcement investigations.[67] The seizures brought in lots of traffic to other markets making TradeRoute and Dream Market the most popular markets at the time. In January 2018, Dream Market added Bitcoin Cash as a payment option.
In October 2017, TradeRoute exit-scammed shortly after being hacked and extorted.[68]
In June 2018, the digital security organization Digital Shadows reported that, due to the climate of fear and mistrust after the closure of AlphaBay and Hansa, darknet market activity was switching away from centralized marketplace websites and towards alternatives such as direct chat on Telegram (service), or decentralized marketplaces like OpenBazaar.

Dream Market, the most popular and longest running darknet market, has recently launched a fairly significant update to their website. It’s not a very obvious visual update and was not mentioned in an announcement on the Dream Market news page. Though it was a seemingly big change that includes a few important new features.
Some of the changes our staff has noticed is a pretty major one. Dream Market, which was only available in English since its creation, now offers support for multiple languages.  Dream Market is now also available in Serbian, Swedish, German, Hindi, Arabic, Italian, Turkish, Chinese, Russian, Japanese, Spanish, and French. Now one of the few Darknet Markets to do so.
As we move into day 5 it’s become apparent that Olympus Market performed the same tricks as Dream Market’s Monero wallet. Go offline for some general maintenance then mysteriously vanish leaving behind clueless support staff and empty bank accounts…
but in hindsight… we all pretty much saw that coming, right? Well…everyone besides Ori and Apollo, who you can’t help but feel at least a little bad for. Ori and Apollo are two of Olympus Market’s forum moderators. Both were sidelined and left in the dark by the Olympus Admins who as of today, have not been heard from in nearly a week.
The issues began last week when vendors at Olympus Market noticed their orders were not finalizing. 6 days ago Olympus published a post in Dread, blaming the same Monero bug that allegedly drained Dream Market’s hot wallet as the reason for the finalize issues, while the rest of the blame was pushed onto strained server resources due to a phisher running a reverse proxy off their site.
The following day the main links for Olympus went completely offline, eventually, this was followed by the Olympus Forum. While we noticed a couple old mirrors of Olympus were still loading fine, those too went dark just a couple days ago. Around that time Olympus was stripped off the DeepDotWeb Top Markets list after receiving the news on Olympus’s current status from HugBunter of Dread.
The forum moderator Ori contacted dread stating “Since today the site is down. All communication channels are dead. There is no way for me to contact any of them.” it was then that the Admin of Dread declared they officially consider Olympus Market an exit scam, based on the lack of an official response from the Olympus Admin and because of the information shared from the Olympus Forum moderator.
Apparently, DNetSEO did some digging and discovered several key indicators that some of the Olympus admins/staff were involved with a previous darknet market or darknet markets that had pulled an exit scam. While as per usual the interview was filled with idiotic questions we ask Darknet Market Admins during interviews, like “If you HAD to have sex with a pokemon which one would it be and why?”(Just an Example), but it also included A FEW SERIOUS questions about the red flags DNetSEO found. I gather that scared them off. And because of that, we are now too hesitant to ask good interview questions out of fear of the Admin becoming uncomfortable and canceling on us.
Beyond that, there are other Olympus related reports buzzing in the Dream Market forum. Allegedly Olympus Market Admins are using their customer’s login credentials to access accounts on other markets to bleed their wallets dry.
I won’t say “They kind of had it coming for re-using passwords and not using 2FA login”. So be smart. If are guilty of re-using the same on multiple sites then please take a couple minutes right now and go update them. Also set up and secure your accounts with 2FA.
For the new Olympus refugees looking for an alternative darknet market, there are two recommended options. One is for those looking for an established market with lots of options, Dream Market is the by far the biggest. Though there are several complaints about shady support moderators and funds disappearing from peoples accounts. couple options. For those interested in newer, well-designed sites with higher rated customer support, will be better off checking out Empire Market (inspired and modeled after AlphaBay) or Rapture (which is similar to Trade Route).
Back in late June, the United States Federal Authorities revealed a massive sting operation that specifically targeted darknet market dealers. Soon afterward over 50 darknet market vendors were arrested and charged in a lengthy operation that spanned several states and involved many federal law enforcement agencies.
But it was not until last night that the name of this massive operation was unveiled to the public, Operation Darkness Falls. This was shared in the same press release that focused on the arrest of the San Antonio couple Matthew and Holly Roberts, better known by their Darknet Market Vendor name, MH4LIFE.
MH4LIFE has been a familiar face for the DNM scene, with a transaction history starting on Silk Road back in 2011.  Since then, MH4LIFE has remained reputable vendor account that has conducted business on Dream Market, AlphaBay, Darknet Heroes League, Nucleus Market and other popular Darknet Marketplaces.  Allegedly their reputation was glowing for providing a wide array of high-quality drugs, and there provide highly praised customer service.
However, it was clear from the press reports that what put a gigantic target on the Robert’s was their decision to sell fentanyl, a powerful synthetic opioid which has led to an alarming rate of overdose fatalities in the United States.  According to the Justice Department, MH4Life was the most prolific darknet market vendor of fentanyl in the US, and the fourth most known in the world at the time of their arrest.
Charges for conspiracy to distribute a controlled substance and other charges were filed against Matthew Roberts and Holly Roberts when the two were apprehended back in April.  From 2011 to 2018, the Robert’s distributed various fentanyl analogs, cocaine, MDMA, LSD, heroin, meth, cannabis, oxys, xanax, and more across various marketplaces. Often under different vendor names. The names mentioned in the press release include MH4LIFE, MRHIGH4LIFE, FASTFORWARD, and TRAPPEDINTIME.
When we checked into the reported vendor accounts we discovered MH4LIFE’s Dream Market account was still visible (although marked as banned) and had an impressive rating of 4.89/5 , and over 4,000 verified transactions between Dream Market, Nucleus, Agora Market. But what really stuck out was the most recent update on MH4LIFE’s profile which indicated that they were in trouble, and cautioned customers that addresses and packages may have been compromised.
The vendor account on Dream Market where the above warning was published shows that their account was banned in May and the last time anyone had logged into the account was dated April 25, 2018.  One troubling thing our team has noticed in the Press Release is it originally claims the couple was arrested in April of this year but goes on to mention the couple operates their vendor accounts until May 12, 2018.  While it may just be a simple error, that’s still worth noting.
It was also mentioned that the Robert’s utilized very professional OPSEC methods when conducting business. They kept their messages and devices encrypted, they purchased all of their postage from third parties with cryptocurrency and used glow bracelets and other objects as decoys in every order.
The Roberts would send their crypto to their digital currency exchanger for cleaning and to receive fiat in exchange.  This may mean their arrest was tied directly to the honeypot laundering service which Law Enforcement took over and controlled for over a year.  Between the laundering service honeypot, and the tens of thousands the Federal Authorities budgeted for blockchain analysis software, it’s clear that LE has a new set of tools and methods to track darknet vendors and shoppers.
That being said, I would like to take the time to shamelessly suggest check out BestMixer.io who are the first mixing service to offer 100% resistance to blockchain analysis. They also charge a low fee, provide several features, and support Bitcoin, Bitcoin Cash, Litecoin, and Etherum. Or you can check out Best Bitcoin Mixers of 2018 article for more information.
The Robert’s case is still pending, and filed with the US District Court in Cleveland.  We will continue to follow this case and publish updates as we receive them.
A New Jersey drug operation which originated on the dark web has resulted in the seizure of over 10 Kilos of cocaine in total, with over 3 kilos discovered in a Monmouth County stash house.
DEA agents searched the home in New Jersey on August 30th and uncovered 4 kilos of cocaine from the property. After the initial raid, the LE source informed the police that they had purchased cocaine and other substances from a darknet market vendor known as Pirate on the now-defunct AlphaBay Market.
The LE informant cooperated with the DEA in an attempt to arrest Pirate, the darknet market vendor.  The source contacted Pirate and arranged for him to ship the source a package of cocaine and marijuana, and in exchange, the source would pay Pirate an amount of bitcoin and ship Pirate’s customers fentanyl.
In September, the court papers show that 7 kilos of cocaine arrived in New Jersey. The shipping receipts that Pirate had sent to the informant shows that the packages had originated in Southern California.
Pirate requested that the informant ship 2 kilos of fentanyl press pills to a customer in Minneapolis.  The informant agreed, and working with Law Enforcement, 2 kilos of fake pills were shipped to the customer address. US Postal Inspectors attempted a controlled delivery of the fake pills, but nobody came to the door.
Over the next month, Pirate contacted the informant and discussed shipping up to 50 kilograms of cocaine to New Jersey if the informant would be interested in shipping fentanyl to Minneapolis. At this point, Pirate offered to visit New Jersey, along with his cocaine supplier so they could meet the informant in person.
The informant agreed to the meeting and they arranged for Pirate to pay $100,000 USD for the informant to supply a person in Minnesota with a large quantity of fentanyl.
In November Pirate flew to Newark Liberty International Airport and arranged for the informant to meet him at his New Jersey hotel.
The informant traveled to the hotel, along with an undercover DEA agent who was hiding a recording device.  Pirate introduced himself as Ali Mumin Hagi-Sufi and introduced his cocaine supplier, Ali Muridi Hagisufi, to the informant and undercover LE.  Ali Mumin Hagi-Sufi (Pirate) gave the informant $20,000 USD and assured the rest would be provided from someone on coming the next day. The also discussed an ongoing exchange of cocaine and fentanyl which would span across Ohio, Minnesota, and Tennessee.
Both Ali Mumin Hagi-Sufi (Pirate) and his cocaine source, Ali Muridi Hagisufi were arrested for conspiracy to distribute a controlled substance analog, using a cellphone to commit a felony, and conspiracy to distribute cocaine.
Dream Market is today the oldest Darknet Market still currently in operation. They first opened their doors on November 15, 2013, and over the years have won the trust and loyalty of many darknet vendors and buyers alike. They offer traditional security features and while the Dream Market might not have the most modern looking website it has proven itself to be a stable and secure Darknet Market.

Not surprisingly, governments are not thrilled at the idea of unregulated (and untaxed) markets operating in the dark web. Law enforcement and three-letter agencies have thrown considerable efforts into shutting them down, though with mixed results.
A raid on The Silk Road in 2013 did end the reign of the popular marketplace, but it had the effect of spawning dozens of new markets to help fill the void. That said, only a few end up lasting more than a year and the average lifespan of a dark web market is just eight months.
Some markets close down, or were simply a scam to begin with, but larger markets tend to fall victim to raids by law enforcement. High profile examples include Operation Onymous (2014), and Operations Bayonet and GraveSec (2017), which shut down the popular markets AlphaBay and Hansa. To give an idea of scale, Hansa reportedly offered more than 24,000 drug product listings at its height.
According to EMCDDA’s report, there are currently nine active markets. If history is any guide though, many of them will be gone by year’s end.
While giants like Google and Amazon may rule the indexed web, the commercial landscape below the surface is shifting constantly.