In cryptography and computer security, a man-in-the-middle attack (MITM) is an attack where the attacker secretly relays and possibly alters the communication between two parties who believe they are directly communicating with each other. One example of a MITM is active eavesdropping, in which the attacker makes independent connections with the victims and relays messages between them to make them believe they are talking directly to each other over a private connection, when in fact the entire conversation is controlled by the attacker. The attacker must be able to intercept all relevant messages passing between the two victims and inject new ones. This is straightforward in many circumstances; for example, an attacker within reception range of an unencrypted wireless access point (Wi-Fi) could insert himself as a man-in-the-middle.
Man-in-the-middle attacks come in two forms, one that involves physical proximity to the intended target, and another that involves malicious software, or malware. This second form, like our fake bank example above, is also called a man-in-the-browser attack.
A rogue access point is a wireless access point that has been installed on a secure network without explicit authorization from a local network administrator, whether added by a well-meaning employee or by a malicious attacker.
A rogue access point, also called rogue AP, is any Wi-Fi access point that is installed on a network but is not authorized for operation on that network, and is not under the management of  the network administrator. Rogue access points often do not conform to wireless LAN (WLAN) security policies, and additionally can allow anyone with a Wi-Fi device to connect to your network.
In computer networking, ARP spoofing, ARP cache poisoning, or ARP poison routing, is a technique by which an attacker sends (spoofed) Address Resolution Protocol (ARP) messages onto a local area network. Generally, the aim is to associate the attacker's MAC address with the IP address of another host, such as the default gateway, causing any traffic meant for that IP address to be sent to the attacker instead.
ARP spoofing may allow an attacker to intercept data frames on a network, modify the traffic, or stop all traffic. Often the attack is used as an opening for other attacks, such as denial of service, man in the middle, or session hijacking attacks.
DNS spoofing, also referred to as DNS cache poisoning, is a form of computer security hacking in which corrupt Domain Name System data is introduced into the DNS resolver's cache, causing the name server to return an incorrect result record, e.g. an IP address. This results in traffic being diverted to the attacker's computer (or any other computer).
DNS spoofing occurs when a particular DNS server’s records of “spoofed” or altered maliciously to redirect traffic to the attacker. This redirection of traffic allows the attacker to spread malware, steal data, etc. For example, if a DNS record is spoofed, then the attacker can manage to redirect all the traffic that relied on the correct DNS record to visit a fake website that the attacker has created to resemble the real site or a different site completely.
Domain Name Server or DNS spoofing is a technique that forces a user to a fake website rather than the real one the user intends to visit. If you are a victim of DNS spoofing, you may think you’re visiting a safe, trusted website when you’re actually interacting with a fraudster. The perpetrator’s goal is to divert traffic from the real site or capture user login credentials.
When your computer connects to an unsecure server — indicated by HTTP — the server can often automatically redirect you to the secure version of the server, indicated by HTTPS. A connection to a secure server means standard security protocols are in place, protecting the data you share with that server. SSL stands for Secure Sockets Layer, a protocol that establishes encrypted links between your browser and the web server. In an SSL hijacking, the attacker uses another computer and secure server and intercepts all the information passing between the server and the user’s computer.
Another form of man-in-the-middle attack happens when a hacker manages to stage an SSL stripping scheme against the victim. As we mentioned previously, hackers can’t break into legitimate HTTPS traffic between a client and a server even if they manage to intercept and relay the communications.
In the case of SSL stripping, the attackers downgrade the communications between the client and server into unencrypted format to be able to stage a MitM attack.
Wary users will notice that they’ve been targeted by an SSL stripping attack if they look in their browser’s address bar and see that they’re connected through the unencrypted HTTP protocol. You can also install HTTPS Everywhere, a browser extension that enforces HTTPS communication wherever possible. HTTPS Everywhere will prevent an uninvited party from downgrading your communications to HTTP.

A man-in-the-middle (MITM) attack is a form of eavesdropping where communication between two users is monitored and modified by an unauthorized party. Generally, the attacker actively eavesdrops by intercepting a public key message exchange and retransmits the message while replacing the requested key with his own.
In the process, the two original parties appear to communicate normally. The message sender does not recognize that the receiver is an unknown attacker trying to access or modify the message before retransmitting to the receiver. Thus, the attacker controls the entire communication.
This term is also known as a janus attack or a fire brigade attack.
MITM is named for a ball game where two people play catch while a third person in the middle attempts to intercept the ball. MITM is also known as a fire brigade attack, a term derived from the emergency process of passing water buckets to put out a fire.
The MITM intercepts communications between two systems and is performed when the attacker is in control of a router along normal point of traffic. The attacker in almost all cases is located on the same broadcast domain as the victim. For instance, in an HTTP transaction, a TCP connection exists between client and server. The attacker splits the TCP connection into two connections – one between the victim and the attacker and the other between attacker and the server. On intercepting the TCP connection, the attacker acts as a proxy reading, altering and inserting data in intercepted communication. The session cookie reading the HTTP header can easily be captured by the intruder.
In an HTTPS connection, two independent SSL connections are established over each TCP connection. An MITM attack takes advantage of the weakness in network communication protocol, convincing the victim to route traffic through the attacker instead of normal router and is generally referred to as ARP spoofing.

A man-in-the-middle attack is carried out by hackers to insert their presence in between the communication of two parties to gain access to all the information sent to and from both the parties. The hacker can stop the users from sending and receiving data, or might even divert and redirect the messages to another user. The main objective of Man-in-the-Middle attack is to eavesdrop the users’ conversation, masking their presence, making it appear so normal as if there is no third person involved in the communication.
The key role of the hackers - to perform a Man-in-the-Middle attack is to steal user login credentials, financial details, credit card numbers and so.
The data extracted by the hackers during the attack could be used for identity theft, i.e. to steal the person’s data and use the same for applying for a credit card by the actual users’ name, to perform unauthorized fund transfers or illegal change of passwords.
Key Concepts of a Man-in-the-Middle Attack

A Man-in-the-Middle Attack is an eavesdropping attack, hand-held by the hacker himself to interfere with a communication session between the system and the people.
This type of attack helps attackers to use the real-time processing of the user’s conversations, transactions or exchange of other data.
MITM Attack Progression
A Man-in-the-Middle attack has to go through two different phases
Interception
Decryption
Interception:
In the initial step, the user traffic is stopped through the attacker’s network even before it reaches the required destination.
The ideal way for hackers is to exploit the user’s system when they get connected to free public WiFi hotspots which are not password protected. So when the target victim gets connected to the public hotspot, the hacker from the other end gains access to the actual data exchange.
Interception can be one of the following attacks
IP Spoofing: This is a method, through which the attackers conceal themselves to look like an application by modifying the packet files in an IP address. This helps the hackers to extract user’s information when the user tries to access the URL connected to the malicious URL.
ARP Spoofing: This is a type of attack through which the hacker sends fake Address Resolution Protocol (ARP) messages through a local network, This is done when the hacker links the malicious MAC address with IP address of the user’s server and computer on the network. Once connected, the hacker automatically starts receiving data that goes in and out of the specific IP address. ARP spoofing entitles the hackers to even alter or intercept data-in-transit. ARP spoofing attacks are most common in local area networks that implement Address Resolution Protocol.
DNS Spoofing: This is also referred to as DNS cache poisoning that introduces corrupt Domain Name System data into DNS server to modify the record of a website’s address. This diverts the users to the attacker’s site.
Decryption
Once the interception is achieved, the SSL traffic has to be decrypted without the user’s attention and also without interfering the normal operations of the application. This phase is called decryption and there is a number of procedures that the hackers have developed to get this done:
HTTPS Spoofing – This helps hackers to send fake certificates to the user’s browsers once the connection is made. It holds a signature in correspondence to the infected application and it surpasses the validation done by the browser by verifying with the standards of trusted sites. Through this way, the hacker gets access to the user’s data even before it reaches the application.
SSL Hijacking – Hackers copy fake authentication keys to user and application during the process of TCP handshake to take control of the complete session while the user assumes it to be a secure connection.
SSL BEAST - Hackers target the TLS version 1.0 vulnerability. The hacker infects the system through malicious JavaScript to block encrypted cookies that are sent from the application to the user.
SSL Stripping – converts an existing HTTPS connection to HTTP by interrupting the TLS authentication sent to the user from the application. An unencrypted version of the application’s website is sent to the user while a secure session is maintained with the application. In the meantime, the complete session of the user is visible to the attacker.
MAN IN THE MIDDLE ATTACK PREVENTION
Man in the Middle Attacks can be prevented by integrating verification techniques for applications alongside effective encryption
Methods to prevent Man in the Middle Attacks
For Individual Users
Refrain from connecting to public Wi-Fi hotspots that are not password protected
Pay close attention to any alerts or warning messages that the website is insecure.
It is advisable to log out of any application when not in use.
When the user is connected to a public network, it is advisable not to perform any sensitive financial transactions.
For Website Operators
Implementing the use of TLS and HTTPS would provide effective encryption and authentication of transmitted data to protect the website from Man-in-the-Middle attacks. This effectively obstructs the decryption of confidential data like authentication keys.
It is healthy to implement the use of SSL/TLS to protect each and every page of the website and not just the pages that involve users’ information. There is a higher chance of the hacker to extract session cookies when the user is browsing on a session that is insecure when logged in.
How Do You Prevent HTTP Interception?
What are SSL/TLS Certificates
Implement the use of an SSL/TLS certificate to stimulate HTTPS protocol which is the secure version of HTTP. An HTTPS protocol encrypts the connection between the browser and the server. This mitigates hacking attempts and protects the user’s information from inquisitive hackers.
There are different types of SSL certificates that provide different levels of protection. TLS Certificates can merge the identity of domain name and the organization when you choose to use an (Organization Validated) or EV (Extended Validation) level certificates. EV SSL Certificates displays the information about the Organization’s identity in the Address Bar. By doing so the EV SSL Certificate can enhance the user’s trust on the organization’s website for its legitimacy.
Systems and Server Configurations
Implementing SSL/TLS is not just enough, ensure that the website does not have any page aspects running on an HTTP protocol to help you leave a backdoor for aspiring hackers. Ensure that all hyperlinks that are a part of the website, use HTTPS protocol.
It is critical to check if the configuration of the server is done right, corresponding to the standards and best practices for algorithms, protocols etc. For instance, check if TLS 1.1 and 1.2 is enabled and SSL2, TLS1, and SSL3 are disabled.
Implement Comodo Secure Box to protect data even on a malware infected website. SecureBox uses an effective method to secure users’ application data from hackers. It runs the sessions inside virtual containers. This keeps the application safe and secure even on infected endpoints.
Comodo SecureBox is efficient to deny Man-in-the-middle attack with the following robust features
Application Containerization is an OS-based visualization technique that creates a threat resistant tunnel between the web clients and the web servers to ensure that the communication or the transactions between the customers and the services and vice versa are secured from threats.
Keylogger Protection: Comodo SecureBox features a smart technique that works on artificial intelligence called keyboard visualization technology. The Keyboard Filter Driver allows you to block any suspicious single keys or even key combinations. It delivers protection as it encrypts the information and sends it directly to the destined window in a unique pattern.
Remote Takeover Protection: Comodo Securebox is equipped with screen capture detection technology. It fights effectively against a remote desktop takeover by obstructing any malicious attempt. This is done by switching from default screen to isolated virtual screen; it also displays warning messages and denies hackers to view anything on the user’s desktop.
Anti-Sniffing: When a potential malicious connection is trying to get established, Comodo SecureBox intercepts to verify if the certificates use Comodo’s trusted root certificate list, to strictly encounter man-in-the-middle attacks.
Anti-Memory Scrapping: Comodo Securebox restricts third-party applications from accessing the memory of containerized applications.
Instant Virus Removal: Comodo Secure box ensures a cloud-based scan of any application even before the user opens the same; this is done to stop or remove any active viruses on the host device

A man in the middle (MITM) attack is a general term for when a perpetrator positions himself in a conversation between a user and an application—either to eavesdrop or to impersonate one of the parties, making it appear as if a normal exchange of information is underway.
The goal of an attack is to steal personal information, such as login credentials, account details and credit card numbers. Targets are typically the users of financial applications, SaaS businesses, e-commerce sites and other websites where logging in is required.
Information obtained during an attack could be used for many purposes, including identity theft, unapproved fund transfers or an illicit password change.
Additionally, it can be used to gain a foothold inside a secured perimeter during the infiltration stage of an advanced persistent threat (APT) assault.
Broadly speaking, a MITM attack is the equivalent of a mailman opening your bank statement, writing down your account details and then resealing the envelope and delivering it to your door. 
Successful MITM execution has two distinct phases: interception and decryption.
Interception
The first step intercepts user traffic through the attacker’s network before it reaches its intended destination.
The most common (and simplest) way of doing this is a passive attack in which an attacker makes free, malicious WiFi hotspots available to the public. Typically named in a way that corresponds to their location, they aren’t password protected. Once a victim connects to such a hotspot, the attacker gains full visibility to any online data exchange.
Attackers wishing to take a more active approach to interception may launch one of the following attacks:
IP spoofing involves an attacker disguising himself as an application by altering packet headers in an IP address. As a result, users attempting to access a URL connected to the application are sent to the attacker’s website.
ARP spoofing is the process of linking an attacker’s MAC address with the IP address of a legitimate user on a local area network using fake ARP messages. As a result, data sent by the user to the host IP address is instead transmitted to the attacker.
DNS spoofing, also known as DNS cache poisoning, involves infiltrating a DNS server and altering a website’s address record. As a result, users attempting to access the site are sent by the altered DNS record to the attacker’s site.
Decryption
After interception, any two-way SSL traffic needs to be decrypted without alerting the user or application. A number of methods exist to achieve this:
HTTPS spoofing sends a phony certificate to the victim’s browser once the initial connection request to a secure site is made. It holds a digital thumbprint associated with the compromised application, which the browser verifies according to an existing list of trusted sites. The attacker is then able to access any data entered by the victim before it’s passed to the application.
SSL BEAST (browser exploit against SSL/TLS) targets a TLS version 1.0 vulnerability in SSL. Here, the victim’s computer is infected with malicious JavaScript that intercepts encrypted cookies sent by a web application. Then the app’s cipher block chaining (CBC) is compromised so as to decrypt its cookies and authentication tokens.
SSL hijacking occurs when an attacker passes forged authentication keys to both the user and application during a TCP handshake. This sets up what appears to be a secure connection when, in fact, the man in the middle controls the entire session.
SSL stripping downgrades a HTTPS connection to HTTP by intercepting the TLS authentication sent from the application to the user. The attacker sends an unencrypted version of the application’s site to the user while maintaining the secured session with the application. Meanwhile, the user’s entire session is visible to the attacker.
Man in the middle attack prevention
Blocking MITM attacks requires several practical steps on the part of users, as well as a combination of encryption and verification methods for applications.
For users, this means:
Avoiding WiFi connections that aren’t password protected.
Paying attention to browser notifications reporting a website as being unsecured.
Immediately logging out of a secure application when it’s not in use.
Not using public networks (e.g., coffee shops, hotels) when conducting sensitive transactions.
For website operators, secure communication protocols, including TLS and HTTPS, help mitigate spoofing attacks by robustly encrypting and authenticating transmitted data. Doing so prevents the interception of site traffic and blocks the decryption of sensitive data, such as authentication tokens.
It is considered best practice for applications to use SSL/TLS to secure every page of their site and not just the pages that require users to log in. Doing so helps decreases the chance of an attacker stealing session cookies from a user browsing on an unsecured section of a website while logged in.’

A Man-in-the-middle attack is a generic name for any cyber attack where someone gets in between you and whatever you’re doing online: between you and your online banking; or between you and your chat with mom; or between your work emails and whoever is meant to send/receive them; or between you and the box where you enter your payment details; or, or, or.
Types of Man In The Middle attack
Email hijacks (or how to lose $500,000 with just one little email)
If the idea of someone intercepting your emails — and even sending emails from your own account — sounds like science-fiction to you, you need to meet the Luptons.
The Luptons are a British couple who decided to sell their apartment. When the sale went through, their lawyer emailed them to ask for their bank account number so he could transfer them the money. The Luptons happily obliged.
What the Luptons didn’t know was that a band of cyber criminals had read their lawyer’s email, as well as their reply. Right away, these criminals emailed the lawyer from the Luptons’ very own email account, told him to ignore the previous bank account number, and to please send the money to a different account instead. That’s how these criminals stole £333,000 (nearly $500,000) from Paul and Ann Lupton.
The Luptons weren't targeted by blind chance. Hacking tools can mass scan unsecured emails for the right combination of words
“Wait, but it’s extraordinarily unlucky that someone happened to be spying on their email communications at that particular moment” you might be thinking. “The odds of that happening must be astronomically small”.
It doesn’t work like that.
The Luptons weren’t targeted by blind chance, and it wasn’t personal either — hacking tools now allow criminals to essentially mass scan unsecured email communications, searching for the right combination of words, until they find what they’re looking for. As you saw with the Lupton example, it can happen to anyone.
Wi-Fi MITM (a.k.a. OMG WTH)
Wi-Fi eavesdropping is a huge deal. Wi-Fi Man In The Middle attacks usually take the form of a rogue networks or an ‘evil twin' (which, if you’ve ever watched a soap opera, is exactly what it sounds like).
Rogue networks are simply public Wi-Fi networks set up by hackers, complete with enticing names like "Free WiFi" or "Looks like Starbucks WiFi But Isn't."
Evil twin attacks are when the hackers set up public Wi-Fi networks that completely mimic legitimate networks you've used in the past. This can fool your devices into connecting automatically, because they are designed to make your life easier and not have you repeatedly enter passwords.
Either way, the hackers completely own these connections, and when people connect to them, everything they do now goes through the hackers. The hacker can then steal their passwords, login and payment details, and other sensitive personal data.
Evil twins can look just like their nice counterpart — the Wi-Fi network of the hotel you’re staying at, or the coffee shop you’re patronizing, or the airport you’re transiting through
“So how am I supposed to know if the free Wi-Fi I just connected to is real or fake? How can I protect myself?” you might be thinking. Worry not — there’s hope, and it’s relatively easy. We’ll get to that in a minute.
But first, let’s have a look at...
Session Hijacks (or how stealing cookies is something grown-ups do now)
Another type of MITM attack is when criminals grab a hold of the bits of code your browser generates to connect to different websites. This is known as cookie hijacking, and it’s nowhere near as much fun as it sounds.
These bits of code, or session cookies, can contain tons of vital personal information, from usernames and passwords to pre-fill forms, your online activities — even your physical address. And once a hacker’s got a hold of all that info, there’s all kinds of things they can potentially do with it, none of them good: impersonating you online, logging onto financial stuff, identity theft and fraud, etc.
Man In The Browser Attack
You may be doing your online banking and seeing your usual screen — but this is just a smokescreen to keep you fooled while hackers move your money out of your account
Man In the Browser. MITB. MIB. It all boils down to this: a Trojan infects your device, allowing criminals to get in the middle of your online transactions (emails, payments, banking,  what have you), and change them to suit their needs — all without you even noticing, because what you see on your end is what the hackers want you to see.
You may be doing your online banking and seeing your usual screen with the amount of funds you expect to see — but this is just a smokescreen to keep you fooled: your bank is receiving requests from criminals pretending to be you, moving your money out of your account, etc. You just can’t see it. By the time you realize what’s happening, it’s too late.
These MITB trojans typically get into your computer via phishing scams, which is why we rag on you so much about how important it is not to open dodgy emails and to take proper precautions while you browse. 
How do Man In The Middle attacks work?
There are two steps in a MITM attack:
Step 1: Interception
The first order of business for Man-In-The-Middlers is to intercept your internet traffic before it reaches its destination. There are a few methods to get this done:
IP spoofing — Like a gang of bank robbers putting fake license plates on their getaway car, IP spoofing consists in hackers faking the real source of the data that they send to your computer, and masking it as a friendly, trusted source. Data is transmitted online in small data packets, each with its own identifying tag. IP spoofers change that tag for something your computer or smartphone recognizes as a legit website or service. Bottom line is, your device ends up talking to an impostor masking as the real thing.
ARP spoofing — Also going by ARP cache poisoning, or ARP poison routing, this MITM method sees hackers sending a false ARP (sounds like a belch, but stands for Address Resolution Protocol) over a LAN (not the Chilean national airline, but Local Area Network), so that the hacker’s MAC (neither the makeup nor the laptop, but rather Media Access Control) address can be linked to your IP (not a hiccup, but Internet Protocol) address and receive all the data that’s intended for you. Have you had it with the acronyms already?
DNS spoofing — Well, here comes another one. DNS stands for Domain Name System, and it’s, well, a system for translating internet domain names from long, unpronounceable, numerical IP addresses into catchy, human-friendly titles like https://omfgdogs.com (go on, click on it — it’s awesome) and vice versa. To speed things up online, servers ‘remember’ these translations and save them in a cache. In a DNS spoofing or DNS cache poisoning attack (same thing, different name), hackers get into this cache and change the translations, so you’re automatically redirected to a fake site instead of the real one you wanted.
Step 2: Decryption
Once hackers have intercepted your web traffic, they have to decrypt it. Here are some common decryption methods used in MITM attacks:
HTTPS spoofing — For a long time, if you saw the letters HTTPS (HTTP Secure) in front of an internet address, you knew you were in good hands. HTTPS is a website certificate key that indicates your transactions on that site are encrypted and your data is therefore secure. But in a HTTPS MITM attack, a hacker installs a spoofed root security certificate so that your browser thinks it’s a certificate it trusts. Because the browser trusts it, it provides it with the encryption key needed to decipher the data you’re sending out — and now the hacker can receive and decrypt it all, read it, re-encrypt it, and send it off to its destination without either you or the final site knowing the communication was intercepted. Sneaky and dangerous — for instance, this is how your emails or online chats could be being read as you send them back and forth.
SSL Beast — Bring back the acronym party! The ‘beast’ part stands for Browser Exploit Against SSL/TLS. SSL is the Secure Sockets Layer protocol (it's the "Secure" in HTTP Secure). That means that hackers can exploit weak spots in the CBC (Cipher Block Chaining, I’m sorry, I wish I could say this is the last one) to grab and decrypt the data that’s going between your browser and a web server. In layman’s terms, it’s another way to maliciously decrypt our web traffic, and it sucks for us internet users.
SSL hijacking — An SSL Man-In-The-Middle attack works like this: when you connect to a website, your browser first connects to the HTTP (non-secure) version of the site. The HTTP server redirects you to the HTTPS (secure) version of the site, and the new secure server provides your browser with a safety certificate. Ping! You’re connected. SSL hijacking happens right before you connect to the secure server. Hackers reroute all your traffic to their computer so your information (emails, passwords, payment details, etc) goes through them first.
SSL stripping — SSL stripping consists on downgrading a website from HTTPS (secure) to HTTP (non-secure). A hacker, by means of a proxy server or one of those ARP spoofing tricks we mentioned above, gets between you and a secure connection, and serves you an unsecured (HTTP) version of it — so all your data, passwords, payments, etc, reach the hacker in plain, unencrypted text. Without you knowing, of course.
Man-in-the-middle attack prevention
MITM attacks are potentially terrible things, but there’s lots you can do to prevent and minimize the risks — and keep your data, your money, and your dignity safe.
Always use a VPN
In plain English, a VPN is a program or app that hides, encrypts and disguises everything you do online — your emails, chats, searches, payments, even your location. VPNs help you protect yourself from MITM attacks and secure any Wi-Fi by encrypting all your internet traffic and turning it into uncrackable gibberish for anyone who may be eavesdropping.
There are lots of VPNs out there, and many of them are rubbish: they’re too slow, or careless with your data, or not as private as they’d want you to think they are. Luckily, your favorite online security company has a terrific VPN you can trust — and you can even try it for free.
Remember your essential website safety tips
Here’s a great, short guide on how to check if a website is safe. You really don’t need much technical knowledge to start using these tips, and they can potentially save you from serious trouble — online and offline
Get a good antivirus
MITM attacks often use malware to do their thing, so it’s essential that you get yourself some good antivirus software you can trust
If money is tight, you can start with this excellent free-forever antivirus. But if you're looking to ditch Man In the Middle Attacks, you can also try out premium protection for free, which includes a Fake Website Shield designed specifically to stop you from being redirected to imposter websites. There’s great security out there for every pocket. No excuses.
How to prevent HTTPS Man-in-the-middle attacks
Remember SSL from earlier? It’s the type of MITM attack that turns HTTPS security certificates into wet paper, by downgrading sites to the less secure HTTP without you noticing.
The solution is called HSTS (HTTP Strict Transport Security), a web security policy that forces browsers and sites to connect through secure HTTPS connections, no matter what. HTTP connection? No dice. HSTS not only takes care of SSL stripping attacks, but also helps against cookie theft and session hijacks — which is a nice bonus.
The good news is that HSTS is becoming more and more common with time, with big web players like Google, Gmail, Twitter and Paypal — and browsers like Chrome, Firefox, Safari, Edge and IE — supporting it for years now.
There isn’t one single, easy button you can click to convert all your connections to HSTS, but it helps if you use one of those aforementioned HSTS browsers. And if you own a website or server and you’re feeling technically adventurous, here are some instructions to make it HSDS-friendly.
How to detect a Man-in-the-middle attack
MITM attacks are very hard to detect while they’re happening, so the best way to stay safe is good prevention
There are a few clues that may indicate you’re being the victim of a MITM attack:
Sudden, long page load delays for no apparent reason.
URLs switching from HTTPS to HTTP.
It’s a very short list.
The truth is, MITM attacks are very hard to detect while they’re happening, so the best way to stay safe is good prevention: as we said earlier, get and use a VPN, avoid connecting directly to public Wi-Fi, install a trustworthy antivirus, and look out for phishing scams.  
For the technically minded, there are trusted tools that can help to detect ARP spoofing, a clear indication of a MITM attack. Wireshark is the world’s most used network protocol analyzer, it’s free and open-source, and it will help you do just that.
SSL Eye is a free software program for Windows which determines the SSL credentials of every site you communicate with — and can therefore let you know if you’re in the middle of a MITM attack.
Your Man-in-the-middle attack prevention checklist
Never connect directly to public Wi-Fi — download and install a VPN instead.
Make sure you have a good, up-to-date antivirus installed in all your devices.
Follow these simple tips to check if a website is safe.
Learn how to spot a phishing scam before you give your login details away.

What is a Man-in-the-Middle (MITM) attack?
A MITM attack happens when a communication between two systems is intercepted by an outside entity. This can happen in any form of online communication, such as email, social media, web surfing, etc. Not only are they trying to eavesdrop on your private conversations, they can also target all the information inside your devices.
Taking away all the technicalities, the concept of an MITM attack can be described in a simple scenario. Imagine being brought back to the days of old when snail mail was rife. Jerry writes a letter to Jackie expressing his love for her after years of hiding his feelings. He sends the letter to the post office and it’s picked up by a nosy mailman. He opened it and, just for the hell of it, he decided to rewrite the letter before delivering the mail to Jackie. This results in Jackie hating Jerry for the rest of her life after “Jerry” called her a fat cow. The moral of the story is the mailman is a jerk, and so are hackers.
A more modern example would be a hacker sitting between you (and your browser) and the website you’re visiting to intercept and capture any data you submit to the site, such as login credentials or financial information.
How Does a Man-in-the-Middle Attack Work?
Over the years, hackers found various ways to execute MITM attacks and believe it or not, it has become relatively cheap to buy a hacking tool online, just proving how easy hacking someone can be if you have enough money. Here are some common types of MITM attacks your business will most likely encounter:
Email Hijacking
Similar from the case above, hackers who use this tactic target email accounts of large organizations, especially financial institutions and banks. Once they gain access to important email accounts, they will monitor the transactions to make their eventual attack a lot more convincing. For example, they can wait for a scenario where the customer will be sending money and respond, spoofing the company’s email address, with their own bank details instead of the company’s. This way, the customer thinks they’re sending their payment to the company, but they’re really sending it right to the hacker.
It’s not just large companies that can fall victim to this type of attack. A similar situation happened to London’s Paul Lupton. After selling his home, he emailed his bank account details to his solicitor to collect the over £333,000 proceeds, unaware that hackers had accessed his email and were monitoring communications. Seeing a golden opportunity, the hackers quickly sent another email to the solicitor under Lupton’s name saying to disregard the previous email and send to another (hacker-owned) account instead. The transfer went through to the hacker’s account, but fortunately Lupton quickly realized what happened and was able to recover the majority of funds. Unfortunately, most of these attacks don’t have such happy endings.
Wi-Fi Eavesdropping
Most MITM attacks thrive on Wi-Fi connections. In one approach, hackers will set up a Wi-Fi connection with a legitimate-sounding name. All the hacker has to do is wait for you to connect and he’ll instantly have access to your device. Alternatively, the hacker can create a fake Wi-Fi node disguised as a legitimate Wi-Fi access point to steal the personal information of everyone who connects.
Session Hijacking
Once you log into a website, a connection between your computer and the website is established. Hackers can hijack your session with the website through numerous means. One popular option they use is stealing your browser cookies. In case you don’t know, cookies store small pieces of information that makes web browsing convenient for you. It can be your online activity, login credentials, pre-fill forms, and in some cases, your location. If they got hold of your login cookies, they can easily log into your accounts and assume your identity.
How Can You Protect Your Networks from These Attacks?
MITM attacks can really overwhelm you just by hearing its basic concept, but that doesn’t mean they are impossible to avoid. PKI technology can help protect you from some of the types of attacks we discussed above.
S/MIME
Secure/Multipurpose Internet Mail Extensions, or S/MIME for short, encrypts your emails at rest or in transit, ensuring only intended recipients can read them and leaving no spaces for hackers to slip their way in and alter your messages.
Additionally, S/MIME lets you digitally sign your email with a Digital Certificate unique to every person. This ties your virtual identity to your email and gives your recipients the assurance that the email they received actually came from you (as opposed to a hacker who access your mail server). You can see how this could have been helpful in the Europol example discussed earlier. While the hackers had access to the companies’ mail servers, in order to digitally sign the messages, they would have also needed access to employee private keys, which are generally securely stored elsewhere. Standardizing on digitally signing messages and educating recipients to only trust messages from your company that have been signed can help differentiate legitimate emails from those that have been spoofed.
Authentication Certificates
Hackers will never go away, but one thing you can do is make it virtually impossible to penetrate your systems (e.g. Wi-Fi networks, email systems, internal networks) by implementing Certificate-Based Authentication for all employee machines and devices. This means only endpoints with properly configured certificates can access your systems and networks. Certificates are user-friendly (there is no additional hardware to manage or much user training needed) and deployments can be automated to make things simple for IT and make them hackers split their hair, as the cool kids would say.
What Is HTTP Interception?
HTTP is the most common internet protocol. Most of the things we do online are implemented on HTTP, from the usual web browsing to instant messaging. Unfortunately, HTTP communications are unprotected and relatively easy to intercept, making them a prime target for MITM attacks. As mentioned earlier, hackers can sit between end users and the website they’re connected to and eavesdrop on their communications, including any information they submit to the website, without them having any idea.
How Do You Prevent HTTP Interception?
SSL/TLS Certificates
If your website still uses the more vulnerable HTTP protocol, it’s time to upgrade to the safer HTTPS protocol through SSL/TLS Certificates. A TLS Certificate will activate the HTTPS protocol, which is the safer version of HTTP. This allows an encrypted, secure connection between your server and your clients’ computers, keeping all information from prying hackers.
TLS Certificates can also bind together your domain name and your organizational identity if you get an Organization Validated (OV) or Extended Validation (EV) level certificate. EV Certificates bring your identity information front and center by displaying your organization name right in the URL bar. This can boost trust among your visitors that your site is legitimately operated by your company and not an imposter site.
System and Server Configurations
Don’t sit on your laurels just yet. Once TLS is up and running, you need to do some configuring. Make sure your website doesn’t have any mixed content or any page element loading over an HTTP protocol (e.g. photos, scripts, widgets) to avoid leaving a backdoor for aspiring hackers. It’s also good practice to make sure any links you are pulling in from other sites are via HTTPS. Make sure your login forms are HTTPS-protected to avoid credential hijacking. Mozilla is already doing a great job preventing users from filling up forms under HTTP protocols by “unsecure connection” warning prompts and a slashed padlock icon. Make sure all hyperlinks contained in your website all use the HTTPS protocol.
It’s also important to make sure you have your server configured correctly (e.g. using the current best practices for protocols, algorithms, etc.). For example, you should make sure you have SSL2, SSL3, and TLS1 protocols disabled; only TLS 1.1 and 1.2 should be enabled. There are many other configuration items to consider and recommended best practices are continually changing as new vulnerabilities are discovered. GlobalSign’s SSL Server Test is an easy-to-use and thorough tool for making sure your server is properly configured.
HSTS over HTTPS
As discussed above, hackers have found ways to get around TLS. For example, even if you request an HTTPS connection (e.g. you type in https://www.example.com), they can change the request to HTTP so you go to http://www.example.com, preventing the encrypted connection. Implementing HTTP Strict Transport Security or HSTS can help prevent this type of attack. This web server directive forces any web browser or app to connect to HTTPS and block any content that uses HTTP as its protocol. HSTS will also prevent hackers from extracting information from your browser cookies, effectively defending your website from session hijackers.