Phishing is the fraudulent attempt to obtain sensitive information such as usernames, passwords and credit card details by disguising as a trustworthy entity in an electronic communication. Typically carried out by email spoofing or instant messaging, it often directs users to enter personal information at a fake website, the look and feel of which are identical to the legitimate site.
Phishing is an example of social engineering techniques being used to deceive users. Users are often lured by communications purporting to be from trusted parties such as social web sites, auction sites, banks, online payment processors or IT administrators.
Phishing attempts directed at specific individuals or companies have been termed spear phishing. In contrast to bulk phishing, spear phishing attackers often gather and use personal information about their target to increase their probability of success. Threat Group-4127 (Fancy Bear) used spear phishing tactics to target email accounts linked to Hillary Clintons 2016 presidential campaign. They attacked more than 1,800 Google accounts and implemented the accounts-google.com domain to threaten targeted users.
Clone phishing is a type of phishing attack whereby a legitimate, and previously delivered, email containing an attachment or link has had its content and recipient address(es) taken and used to create an almost identical or cloned email. The attachment or link within the email is replaced with a malicious version and then sent from an email address spoofed to appear to come from the original sender. It may claim to be a resend of the original or an updated version to the original. This technique could be used to pivot (indirectly) from a previously infected machine and gain a foothold on another machine, by exploiting the social trust associated with the inferred connection due to both parties receiving the original email.
The term whaling has been coined for spear phishing attacks directed specifically at senior executives and other high-profile targets. In these cases, the content will be crafted to target an upper manager and the person's role in the company. The content of a whaling attack email may be an executive issue such as a subpoena or customer complaint.
A pharming attack can happen even when you are browsing a legitimate site and you have typed in the URL of the website yourself. In a pharming attack, the criminal “hijacks” the intended site’s DNS (domain name system) server and the result is that you are redirected to an imposter site. Much like in a phishing scam, many won’t notice any difference, and will enter their username and password as usual, and the attacker captures it.
Pharming is a cyber attack intended to redirect a website's traffic to another, fake site. Pharming can be conducted either by changing the hosts file on a victim's computer or by exploitation of a vulnerability in DNS server software. DNS servers are computers responsible for resolving Internet names into their real IP addresses. Compromised DNS servers are sometimes referred to as poisoned. Pharming requires unprotected access to target a computer, such as altering a customer's home computer, rather than a corporate business server.

Suppose you check your e-mail one day and find a message from your bank. You've gotten e-mail from them before, but this one seems suspicious, especially since it threatens to close your account if you don't reply immediately. What do you do?
This message and others like it are examples of phishing, a method of online identity theft. In addition to stealing personal and financial data, phishers can infect computers with viruses and convince people to participate unwittingly in money laundering.
Most people associate phishing with e-mail messages that spoof, or mimic, banks, credit card companies or other business like Amazon and eBay. These messages look authentic and attempt to get victims to reveal their personal information. But e-mail messages are only one small piece of a phishing scam.
From beginning to end, the process involves:
Planning. Phishers decide which business to target and determine how to get e-mail addresses for the customers of that business. They often use the same mass-mailing and address collection techniques as spammers.
Setup. Once they know which business to spoof and who their victims are, phishers create methods for delivering the message and collecting the data. Most often, this involves e-mail addresses and a Web page.
Attack. This is the step people are most familiar with -- the phisher sends a phony message that appears to be from a reputable source.
Collection. Phishers record the information victims enter into Web pages or popup windows.
Identity Theft and Fraud. The phishers use the information they've gathered to make illegal purchases or otherwise commit fraud. As many as a fourth of the victims never fully recover [Source: Information Week].
If the phisher wants to coordinate another attack, he evaluates the successes and failures of the completed scam and begins the cycle again.
Phishing scams take advantages of software and security weaknesses on both the client and server sides. But even the most high-tech phishing scams work like old-fashioned con jobs, in which a hustler convinces his mark that he is reliable and trustworthy. Next, we'll look at the steps phishers take to convince victims that their messages are legitimate.

Phishing involves sending emails that appear to come from reliable sources (such as banks) and that try to get users to reveal confidential banking information, which is then used fraudulently.
To do this, the messages usually include a link to spoofed web pages. This way, users believe they have reached a trusted website, and enter the requested information, which is really falling into the hands of the fraudsters.
The following image is a typical example of phishing:
The harmful effects of phishing are:
Theft of identity and users’ confidential details. This could result in financial losses for users and even prevent them from accessing their own accounts.
Loss of productivity.
Excessive resource consumption on corporate networks (bandwidth, saturated email systems, etc.).
One particularly dangerous form of phishing is known as pharming. This involves modifying the domain name resolution system (DNS) to redirect users to false web pages.
Normally, when a user types an address into the browser, this is converted into a numeric IP address. This process is known as domain name resolution, and is normally performed by DNS servers.
However, there are types of malware designed to modify the system for resolving domain names on the local computer, located in a file called HOSTS.
This file stores the information to resolve certain IP addresses accessed by the user. So when a user enters the name of a legitimate website, the computer first consults the HOSTS file to see if there is an IP address associated to this name. If it doesn’t find it, it will consult the DNS server of the service provider.
Pharming involves manipulating the HOSTS file to redirect the domain name of trusted organizations, such as banks, to imitation websites, in order that hackers can collect the confidential information entered in these websites by users.
Unlike phishing, pharming attacks are a continuous process, as the alteration to the HOSTS file remains on a computer, waiting for users to access online banking services.
Most phishing attacks consist of a spoofed email message that appears to have been sent from a bank or similar, and whose clients it aims to deceive. This message contains links to one or more Web pages that imitate all or part of the company’s website, where victims are prompted to enter their personal details.
With respect to the relationship between spam and phishing, it is clear that by mass-mailing these fraudulent emails, cyber-crooks have a highly efficient means of capturing potential victims. In fact, email is generally the most widely-used channel for cyber-crooks to communicate with potential victims.
However, these types of crimes are not just channeled through email, and phishing can also be launched through SMS (smishing) or Voice over IP (vishing).
With smishing, users receive a text message urging them to access a link. This will lead them to the fraudulent website. In the case of vishing, users receive a call from someone claiming to represent their bank and asking them to verify a series of data.

Phishing is the crime of deceiving people into sharing sensitive information like passwords and credit card numbers. As with real fishing, there's more than one way to reel in a victim, but one phishing tactic is the most common. Victims receive an email or a text message that imitates (or “spoofs”) a person or organization they trust, like a coworker, a bank, or a Government office. When the victim opens the email or text, they find a scary message meant to overcome their better judgement by filling them with fear. The message demands that the victim go to a website and take immediate action or risk some sort of consequence. 
If users take the bait and click the link, they're sent to an imitation of a legitimate website. From here, they're asked to log in with their username and password credentials. If they are gullible enough to comply, the sign-on information goes to the attacker, who uses it to steal identities, pilfer bank accounts, and sell personal information on the black market. 
Unlike other kinds of online threats, phishing does not require particularly sophisticated technical expertise. In fact, according to Adam Kujawa, Director of Malwarebytes Labs, “Phishing is the simplest kind of cyberattack and, at the same time, the most dangerous and effective. That is because it attacks the most vulnerable and powerful computer on the planet: the human mind.” Phishers are not trying to exploit a technical vulnerability in your device's operation system—they're using “social engineering. From Windows and iPhones, to Macs and Androids, no operating system is completely safe from phishing, no matter how strong its security is. In fact, attackers often resort to phishing because they can't find any technical vulnerabilities. Why waste time cracking through layers of security when you can trick someone into handing you the key? More often than not, the weakest link in a security system isn't a glitch buried in computer code, it's a human being who doesn't double check where an email came from. 
he origin of the name “phishing” is easy enough to trace. The process of performing a phishing scam is much like actual, aquatic fishing. You assemble some bait designed to deceive your victim, then you cast it out and hope for a bite. As for the digraph “ph” replacing the “f,” it could be the result of a portmanteau of “fishing” and “phony,” but some sources point back to another possible origin.
In the 1970s, a subculture formed around the practice of using low-tech hacks to exploit the telephone system. These early hackers were called “phreaks”—a combination of “phone” and “freaks.” At a time when there weren't many networked computers to hack, phreaking was a common way to make free long-distance calls or reach unlisted numbers.
Even before the actual “phishing” term took hold, a phishing technique was described in detail in a paper and presentation delivered to the 1987 International HP Users Group, Interex.
The use of the name itself is first attributed to a notorious spammer and hacker in the mid-1990s, Khan C Smith. Also, according to Internet records, the first time that phishing was publicly used and recorded was on January 2, 1996. The mention occurred in a Usenet newsgroup called AOHell. At the time, America Online (AOL) was the number one provider of Internet access, with millions of log-ons daily.
Naturally, AOL's popularity made it a target for fraudsters. Hackers and software pirates used it to communicate with one another, as well as to conduct phishing attacks on legitimate users. When AOL took steps to shut down AOHell, the attackers turned to other techniques. They sent messages to AOL users claiming to be AOL employees and asked people to verify their accounts and hand over billing information. Eventually, the problem grew so bad that AOL added warnings on all email and instant messenger clients stating "no one working at AOL will ask for your password or billing information."
Going into the 2000s, phishing turned its attention to exploiting online payment systems. It became common for phishers to target bank and online payment service customers, some of whom—according to subsequent research—might have even been accurately identified and matched to the actual bank they used. Likewise, social networking sites became a prime phishing target, attractive to fraudsters since personal details on such sites are useful for identity theft.
Criminals registered dozens of domains that spoofed eBay and PayPal well enough that they passed for the real thing if you weren't paying close enough attention. PayPal customers then received phishing emails (containing links to the fake website), asking them to update their credit card numbers and other personally identifiable information. The first known phishing attack against a bank was reported by The Banker (a publication owned by The Financial Times Ltd.) in September 2003.
By the mid-2000s, turnkey phishing software was readily available on the black market. At the same time, groups of hackers began to organize in order to orchestrate sophisticated phishing campaigns. Estimated losses due to successful phishing during this time vary, with a 2007 report from Gartner stating that as many as 3.6 million adults lost $3.2 billion between August 2006 and August 2007. 
In 2011, phishing found state sponsors when a suspected Chinese phishing campaign targeted Gmail accounts of highly ranked officials of the United States and South Korean governments and militaries, as well as Chinese political activists.
In perhaps the most famous event, in 2013, 110 million customer and credit card records were stolen from Target customers, through a phished subcontractor account.
Even more infamous was the phishing campaign launched by Fancy Bear (a cyber espionage group associated with the Russian military intelligence agency GRU) against email addresses associated with the Democratic National Committee in the first quarter of 2016. In particular, Hillary Clinton's campaign manager for the 2016 presidential election, John Podesta, had his Gmail hacked and subsequently leaked after falling for the oldest trick in the book—a phishing attack claiming that his email password had been compromised (so click here to change it).
In 2017, a massive phishing scam tricked Google and Facebook accounting departments into wiring money, a total of over $100 million, to overseas bank accounts under the control of a hacker.
Despite their many varieties, the common denominator of all phishing attacks is their use of a fraudulent pretense to acquire valuables. Some major categories include:
Spear phishing
While most phishing campaigns send mass emails to as many people as possible, spear phishing is targeted. Spear phishing attacks a specific person or organization, often with content that is tailor made for the victim or victims. It requires pre-attack reconnaissance to uncover names, job titles, email addresses, and the like. The hackers scour the Internet to match up this information with other researched knowledge about the target's colleagues, along with the names and professional relationships of key employees in their organizations. With this, the phisher crafts a believable email.
For instance, a fraudster might spear phish an employee whose responsibilities include the ability to authorize payments. The email purports to be from an executive in the organization, commanding the employee to send a substantial payment either to the exec or to a company vendor (when in fact, the malicious payment link sends it to the attacker).
Spear phishing is a critical threat to businesses (and governments), and it costs plenty. According to a 2016 report of a survey on the subject, spear phishing was responsible for 38% of cyberattacks on participating enterprises during 2015. Plus, for the U.S. businesses involved, the average cost of spear phishing attacks per incident was $1.8 million. 
Clone phishing
In this attack, criminals make a copy—or clone—of previously delivered but legitimate emails that contain either a link or an attachment. Then, the phisher replaces the links or attached files with malicious substitutions disguised as the real thing. Unsuspecting users either click the link or open the attachment, which often allows their systems to be commandeered. Then the phisher can counterfeit the victim's identity in order to masquerade as a trusted sender to other victims in the same organization.
419/Nigerian scams
A verbose phishing email from someone claiming to be a Nigerian prince is one of the Internet's earliest and longest-running scams. According to Wendy Zamora, Head of Content at Malwarebytes Labs, “The Nigerian prince phish comes from a person claiming to be a government official or member of a royal family who needs help transferring millions of dollars out of Nigeria. The email is marked as ‘urgent' or ‘private,' and its sender asks the recipient to provide a bank account number for safekeeping the funds.”
In a hilarious update of the classic Nigerian phishing template, British news website Anorak reported in 2016 that it received an email from a certain Dr. Bakare Tunde, who claimed to be the project manager of astronautics for Nigeria's National Space Research and Development Agency. Dr. Tunde alleged that his cousin, Air Force Major Abacha Tunde, had been stranded on an old Soviet space station for more than 25 years. But for only $3 million, Russian space authorities could mount a flight to bring him home. All the recipients had to do was send in their bank account information in order to transfer the needed amount, for which Dr. Tunde will pay a $600,000 fee.
Incidentally, the number "419" is associated with this scam. It refers to the section of the Nigerian Criminal Code dealing with fraud, the charges, and penalties for offenders.
Phone phishing
With phone-based phishing attempts, sometimes called voice phishing or “vishing,” the phisher calls claiming to represent your local bank, the police, or even the IRS. Next, they scare you with some sort of problem and insist you clear it up immediately by sharing your account information or paying a fine. They usually ask that you pay with a wire transfer or with prepaid cards, so they are impossible to track.
SMS phishing, or “smishing,” is vishing's evil twin, carrying out the same kind of scam (sometimes with an embedded malicious link to click) by means of SMS texting. 
How to identify a phishing attack
Recognizing a phishing attempt isn't always easy, but a few tips, a little discipline, and some common sense will go a long way. Look for something that's off or unusual. Ask yourself if the message passes the “smell test.” Trust your intuition, but don't let yourself get swept up by fear. Phishing attacks often use fear to cloud your judgement.
Here are a few more signs of a phishing attempt:
The email makes an offer that sounds too good to be true. It might say you've won the lottery, an expensive prize, or some other over-the-top item.  
You recognize the sender, but it's someone you don't talk to. Even if the sender's name is known to you, be suspicious if it's someone you don't normally communicate with, especially if the email's content has nothing to do with your normal job responsibilities. Same goes if you're cc'd in an email to folks you don't even know, or perhaps a group of colleagues from unrelated business units.
The message sounds scary. Beware if the email has charged or alarmist language to create a sense of urgency, exhorting you to click and “act now” before your account is terminated. Remember, responsible organizations do not ask for personal details over the Internet.
The message contains unexpected or unusual attachments. These attachments may contain malware, ransomware, or another online threat.
The message contains links that look a little off. Even if your spider sense is not tingling about any of the above, don't take any embedded hyperlinks at face value. Instead, hover your cursor over the link to see the actual URL. Be especially on the lookout for subtle misspellings in an otherwise familiar-looking website, because it indicates fakery. It's always better to directly type in the URL yourself rather than clicking on the embedded link.
Here's an example of a phishing attempt that spoofs a notice from PayPal, asking the recipient to click on the “Confirm Now” button. Mousing over the button reveals the true URL destination in the red rectangle.
How do I protect myself against phishing?
As stated previously, phishing is an equal opportunity threat, capable of showing up on desktops, laptops, tablets, and smartphones. Most Internet browsers have ways to check if a link is safe, but the first line of defense against phishing is your judgement. Train yourself to recognize the signs of phishing and try to practice safe computing whenever you check your email, read Facebook posts, or play your favorite online game.
Once again from our own Adam Kujawa, here are a few of the most important practices to keep you safe:
Don't open e-mails from senders you are not familiar with.
Don't ever click on a link inside of an e-mail unless you know exactly where it is going.
To layer that protection, if you get an e-mail from a source you are unsure of, navigate to the provided link manually by entering the legitimate website address into your browser.
Lookout for the digital certificate of a website.
If you are asked to provide sensitive information, check that the URL of the page starts with “HTTPS” instead of just “HTTP.” The “S” stands for “secure.”It's not a guarantee that a site is legitimate, but most legitimate sites use HTTPS because it's more secure. HTTP sites, even legitimate ones, are vulnerable to hackers. 
If you suspect an e-mail isn't legitimate, take a name or some text from the message and put it into a search engine to see if any known phishing attacks exist using the same methods.
Mouseover the link to see if it's a legitimate link.
As always, we recommend using some sort of anti-malware security software. Most cybersecurity tools have the ability to detect when a link or an attachment isn't what it seems, so even if you fall for a clever phishing attempt, you won't end up sharing your info with the wrong people. 

Phishing is the act of sending an email to a user falsely claiming to be an established legitimate enterprise in an attempt to scam the user into surrendering private information that will be used for identity theft.
Phishing email will typically direct the user to visit a website where they are asked to update personal information, such as a password, credit card, social security, or bank account numbers, that the legitimate organization already has. The website, however, is bogus and will capture and steal any information the user enters on the page (see "website spoofing").
Examples of Phishing Scams
2003 saw the proliferation of a phishing scam in which users received emails supposedly from eBay claiming that the user's account was about to be suspended unless he clicked on the provided email link and updated the credit card information that the genuine eBay already had. Because it is relatively simple to make a website look like a legitimate organization's site by mimicking the HTML code, the scam counted on people being tricked into thinking they were actually being contacted by eBay and were subsequently going to eBay's site to update their account information.
A global study released by the Anti-Phishing Working Group (APWG) in 2014 suggests that 54% of phishing emails targeted major bands including Apple, PayPal, and Chinese marketplace Taobao, indicating that phishers update their approaches looking out for new victims in niche industry segments. While millions of phishing URLs were reported in 2014, there were at least 123,972 unique phishing attacks worldwide in the second half of 2014. (source)
Why is This Successful for Scammers?
Phishing emails are blindly sent to thousands, if not millions of recipients. By spamming large groups of people, the "phisher" counts on the email being read by a percentage of people who actually have an account with the legitimate company being spoofed in the email and corresponding webpage.
Phishing, also referred to as brand spoofing or carding, is a variation on "fishing," the idea being that bait is thrown out with the hopes that while most will ignore the bait, some will be tempted into biting.

Phishing is the fraudulent act of acquiring private and sensitive information, such as credit card numbers, personal identification and account usernames and passwords. Using a complex set of social engineering techniques and computer programming expertise, phishing websites lure email recipients and Web users into believing that a spoofed website is legitimate and genuine. In actuality, the phishing victim later discovers his personal identity and other vital information have been stolen and exposed.
Phishing uses link manipulation, image filter evasion and website forgery to fool Web users into thinking that a spoofed website is genuine and legitimate. Once the user enters vital information, he immediately becomes a phishing victim. 

A phishing attack is a simple yet effective attack technique, which can provide the perpetrators with a wealth of personal and corporate information. The aim and precise mechanics of the attack can vary, but they usually centered around soliciting personal data from the victim or getting them to install malicious software that can inflict damage upon their device like malware based phishing.
What is a phishing attack and why are they so dangerous? Phishing is an example of a technical attack that exploit the most vulnerable part of an organization: its employees. Employees are arguably a corporation’s best asset, but when it comes to keeping data safe they are also the biggest security threat.
Even the most vigilant team members respond to cleverly targeted phishing campaigns, click on files riddled with malware and open attachments from “colleagues” without giving it a second thought. Phishing is not only regular, but it’s also the most damaging and high profile cybersecurity threat facing enterprises today – supported by research from Google, Black Hat and US Homeland Security.
The evolution of phishing
Social engineering techniques have long been part of the cyber criminal’s repertoire. The earliest incidents of phishing transpired over twenty years ago when email was the preferred vehicle of attack. ‘Phishers’ would cast their nets far and wide with rudimentary techniques to encourage victims to part ways with their PII.
Realizing that email was a breeding ground for cyber threats, organizations responded by enlisting email-focused security solutions to protect data, revenue and reputation. Fast forward a couple of decades and the proliferation of mobile technology has dramatically changed the phishing landscape.
Wandera’s recent research revealed that 81% of mobile phishing attacks occur outside of email with apps, messaging services, and websites being the most attractive targets.
What are forms of phishing?
Many questions form around the dense topic of phishing and the many types of phishing – what is phishing, spear phishing, and is there a difference between the two? There is a slight distinction and in fact, there are many other types of phishing. In order to identify a phishing attack and provide adequate protection, it’s important to know the different types of phishing.
Financial Fraud
A phishing attack that attempts to directly gain financial information, such as bank details or online login credentials. One example is fake updates from PayPal look-a-likes that falsify spending receipts, upon which the user will be inclined to investigate. These are typically, but not always, distributed by email. There are also many instances of hackers using SMS to send information to targets as if they are originating from PayPal itself.
The message will often focus on an anomalous payment or important service update, such as confirming the purchase of an item for $29, for example. The recipient is understandably tempted into inspecting this unrecognized transaction further, and clicks through the email to what appears to be the PayPal login page. Here, user credentials can be gathered by the host of the fake PayPal site, which can then be used to access the real PayPal service – offering hackers direct access to the target’s finances.
Service updates
Much like financial fraud, this approach sees hackers pose as services such as Dropbox or a utility provider, often as an indirect means for financial gain. The nature of messages to users can be quite benign, but will attempt to look as legitimate as possible.
Spoof landing pages are designed to capture the real user credentials for these sites, which hackers then use to log in to the real service, and gain access to everything a user has associated with it.
Clone phishing examples examined by researchers at Wandera reveal a variety of different approaches in this manner. These range from dummy login pages for Google, Microsoft and Apple online accounts, to scary and official-looking updates from Government agencies. This technique can even be used to bypass those that include two-factor authentication
(2FA).
A variation of this attack requires a hacker to be online while a target enters their details into the fake page for Microsoft’s services, for example. Attackers will then enter the credentials into the real Microsoft login page, which then triggers a 2FA prompt. The target receives a text from Microsoft, as expected, which they then enter into the fake login page. Meanwhile, the hacker reads the real 2FA code that has been submitted by the user, and enters it into the genuine Microsoft login page, thus surpassing even the strongest of 2FA systems.
Promotional offer
This is a form of phishing in which some kind of coupon or special deal is promoted. This occurs on a mass scale, using entirely automated processes. This might feature tickets for a gig, or heavy discounting on retail purchases. The added benefit for hackers with this technique is that often the promotion involves resharing the initial link, helping spread the attack even further.
This type of attack is particularly successful on social media and messaging apps like Skype and WhatsApp, where it’s more common to trust content from third party sources. Hackers also make frequent use of ad networks and promoted posts to reach even more victims with offers that really are too good to be true.
A popular example of this kind of phishing is a Starbucks promotional page distributed to consumers, where they are invited to sign up to a service so they can receive vouchers for free coffee. Of course, this user information is then accessible by the attacker and can be used for nefarious purposes, such as attempting to use those same signup details to access other more lucrative services. This tactic is more effective than you might initially think – a staggering 55% of web users use the same password for most, if not all, websites.
Spear phishing
There’s not a huge difference in spear phishing vs phishing. Spear phishing is a type of phishing that is much more targeted than other approaches. Here, a particular individual or organization will be attacked using information specific to that target. This might include the impersonation of employees or contractors to extract a certain piece of data, often using manipulation and trust rather than online
Pages to execute the attack.
An example of this attack happened at Google and Facebook, where emails supposedly from suppliers were sent to members of the finance department. Fraudsters posed as Quanta Computer, a genuine Taiwanese electronics manufacturer that has both Google and Facebook as clients.
Shockingly, even the shrewd and highly intelligent employees of these tech giants erroneously paid invoices worth tens of millions to these phony suppliers, totalling more than $200m in payments between them. This clever blend of targeted, relevant information and convincing, tailored phishing attempts can prove extremely costly to many businesses.
Whaling
Technically a branch of spear phishing, this type of attack is focused squarely on high profile individuals. Attackers can spend months researching their targets, working out their daily routine and mapping their personal relationships. Once equipped with this highly personalized information, the hacker will begin to use it to their advantage.
One example saw the COO of a well-known media company sent a series of messages from an attacker impersonating a remote colleague – itself an intensely researched bit of information. This email was sent using an almost identical domain name, for example using bloornberg.com rather than bloomberg.com. These were coupled with WhatsApp messages of a similar nature, complete with seemingly accurate images and personal details of the target employee stolen from their legitimate social media profiles.
After building a degree of trust in a back and forth series of messages, the imposter included a note informing the COO that the salaries of some of his direct reports had been publicly posted online. The COO, suitably alarmed, clicked through to see where the info had been published and was asked to download and open an attached file. Included in the file was a nefarious piece of malware, designed by the attacker to gain access to the company’s internal systems and steal vast troves of sensitive corporate data. This incident reportedly cost the organization tens of millions of dollars.
Why mobile?
A lack of mobile security solution features introduces a number of unique characteristics that make it a particularly fertile ground for phishing attacks when compared with desktop.
Obscured url – the limited screen space on mobile means that browsers typically remove visibility of the url a user visits, reducing their ability to easily double check suspicious domains.
Limited screen size – the aforementioned smaller screens also mean detailed scrutiny of web pages is more difficult.
Distraction mode – the fleeting, ‘on the move’ nature of mobile experience means that most interactions demand less concentration from the user. Phishers take advantage of this less focused mode of user attention.
Secured medium – for a variety of reasons, people are typically more trusting of mobile devices and apps than they are of desktop software. This misplaced trust makes the different types of phishing attempts more successful.
How to prevent phishing within your enterprise
There’s no simple answer to combat the ever-growing phishing threat. Part of the issue is education, and part of it is infrastructure.
The fact that malicious HTTPS sites are being detected means it’s even harder for app-centric security solutions to realize that important data has been given to a phishing site, as the data is encrypted. It’s imperative for organizations to have full visibility into where their data is being sent if an employee takes the bait.
Wandera has built the only technology that can automatically detect, alert and block traffic to mobile phishing sites in real-time. The Secure Mobile Gateway provides admins with full visibility into all the data being sent to and from the device at all times, preventing attackers from getting their hands on your personal information.

Every data breach and online attack seems to involve some kind of phishing attempt to steal password credentials, to launch fraudulent transactions, or to trick someone into downloading malware. In early 2016, 93 percent of phishing emails delivered ransomware, according to statistics from PhishMe.
Enterprises regularly remind users to beware of phishing attacks, but many users don’t really know how to recognize them. One reason for this is the fact that these attacks can take many forms. “Phishing attacks come in all shapes and sizes, targeting specific individuals within an organization who have access to sensitive data,” says Area 1 Security’s Shalabh Mohan.
Users tend to be bad at recognizing scams. According to a Verizon cybersecurity report, an attacker sending out 10 phishing emails has a 90 percent chance that one person will fall for it. This seems absurd at first, but it is reasonable when considered in the context of users outside the tech bubble, such as those in manufacturing and education. Add in the fact that not all phishing scams work the same way — some are generic email blasts while others are carefully crafted to target a very specific type of person — and it gets harder to train users to know when a message seems a little hinky.
Let’s look at the different types of phishing attacks and how to recognize them.
What is phishing? Mass-market emails
The most common form of phishing is the general, mass-mailed type, where someone sends an email pretending to be someone else and tries to trick the recipient in doing something, usually logging into a website or downloading malware. Attacks frequently rely on email spoofing, where the email header — the from field — is forged to make the message appear as if it was sent by a trusted sender.
However, phishing attacks don’t always look like a UPS delivery notification email, a warning message from PayPal about passwords expiring, or an Office 365 email about storage quotas. Some attacks are crafted to specifically target organizations and individuals, and others rely on methods other than email.
What is spear phishing? Going after specific targets
Phishing attacks get their name from the notion that fraudsters are fishing for random victims by using spoofed or fraudulent email as bait. Spear phishing attacks extend the fishing analogy as attackers are specifically targeting high-value victims and organizations. Instead of trying to get banking credentials for 1,000 consumers, the attacker may find it more lucrative to target a handful of businesses. A nation-state attacker may target an employee working for another government agency, or a government official, to steal state secrets.
Spear phishing attacks are extremely successful because the attackers spend a lot of time crafting information specific to the recipient, such as referencing a conference the recipient may have just attended or sending a malicious attachment where the filename references a topic the recipient is interested in.
In a recent phishing campaign, Group 74 (a.k.a. Sofact, APT28, Fancy Bear) targeted cybersecurity professionals with an email pretending to be related to the Cyber Conflict U.S. conference, an event organized by the United States Military Academy’s Army Cyber Institute, the NATO Cooperative Cyber Military Academy, and the NATO Cooperative Cyber Defence Centre of Excellence. While CyCon is a real conference, the attachment was actually a document containing a malicious Visual Basic for Applications (VBA) macro that would download and execute reconnaissance malware called Seduploader.
What is whaling? Going after the big one
Different victims, different paydays. A phishing attack specifically targeting the enterprise’s top executives is called whaling, as the victim is considered to be high-value, and the stolen information will be more valuable than what a regular employee may offer. The account credentials belonging to a CEO will open more doors than an entry-level employee. The goal is to steal data, employee information, and cash.
Whaling also requires additional research because the attacker needs to know who the intended victim communicates with and the kind of discussions they have. Examples include references to customer complaints, legal subpoenas, or even a problem in the executive suite. Attackers typically start with social engineering to gather information about the victim and the company before crafting the phishing message that will be used in the whaling attack.
What is business email compromise (BEC)? Pretending to be the CEO
Aside from mass-distributed general phishing campaigns, criminals target key individuals in finance and accounting departments via business-email compromise (BEC) scams and CEO email fraud. By impersonating financial officers and CEOs, these criminals attempt to trick victims into initiating money transfers into unauthorized accounts.
Typically, attackers compromise the email account of a senior executive or financial officer by exploiting an existing infection or via a spear phishing attack. The attacker lurks and monitors the executive’s email activity for a period of time to learn about processes and procedures within the company. The actual attack takes the form of a false email that looks like it has come from the compromised executive’s account being sent to someone who is a regular recipient. The email appears to be important and urgent, and it requests that the recipient send a wire transfer to an external or unfamiliar bank account. The money ultimately lands in the attacker’s bank account.
According to the FBI’s Internet Crime Complaint Center, BEC scams have generated more than $4.5 billion in actual and attempted losses, and they are a massive global problem.
What is clone phishing? Copies are just as effective
Clone phishing requires the attacker to create a nearly identical replica of a legitimate message to trick the victim into thinking it is real. The email is sent from an address resembling the legitimate sender, and the body of the message looks the same as a previous message. The only difference is that the attachment or the link in the message has been swapped out with a malicious one. The attacker may say something along the lines of having to resend the original, or an updated version, to explain why the victim was receiving the “same” message again.
This attack is based on a previously seen, legitimate message, making it more likely that users will fall for the attack. An attacker who has already infected one user may use this technique against another person who also received the message that is being cloned. In another variation, the attacker may create a cloned website with a spoofed domain to trick the victim.
What is vishing? Phishing over the phone
Vishing stands for “voice phishing” and it entails the use of the phone. Typically, the victim receives a call with a voice message disguised as a communication from a financial institution. For instance, the message might ask the recipient to call a number and enter their account information or PIN for security or other official purposes. However, the phone number rings straight to the attacker via a voice-over-IP service.
Recently, criminals have started calling victims pretending to be Apple tech support and providing users with a number to call to resolve the “security problem.” Like the old Windows tech support scam, these scams take advantage of user fears of their devices getting hacked.
What is snowshoeing? Spreading poisonous messages
Snowshoeing, or “hit-and-run” spam, requires attackers to push out messages via multiple domains and IP addresses. Each IP address sends out a low volume of messages, so reputation- or volume-based spam filtering technologies can’t recognize and block malicious messages right away. Some of the messages make it to the email inboxes before the filters learn to block them.
Hailstorm campaigns work the same as snowshoe, except the messages are sent out over an extremely short time span. Some hailstorm attacks end just as the anti-spam tools catch on and update the filters to block future messages, but the attackers have already moved on to the next campaign.
Learn to recognize different types of phishing
Users aren’t good at understanding the impact of falling for a phishing attack. A reasonably savvy user may be able to assess the risk of clicking on a link in an email, as that could result in a malware download or follow-up scam messages asking for money. However, a naive user may think nothing would happen, or wind up with spam advertisements and pop-ups. Only the most-savvy users can estimate the potential damage from credential theft and account compromise. This risk assessment gap makes it harder for users to grasp the seriousness of recognizing malicious messages. “Despite continued investment, phishing emails continue to bypass perimeter technologies to reach employees’ inboxes every day,” said Rohyt Belani, co-founder and CEO of PhishMe.
Organizations need to consider existing internal awareness campaigns and make sure employees are given the tools to recognize different types of attacks. Organizations also need to beef up security defenses, because some of the traditional email security tools — such as spam filters — are not enough defense against some phishing types. For example, spam filters are not useful against BEC attacks.